MATT: Hello everyone. My name is MATThew Mercer, 

voice actor and Dungeon Master 

for Critical Role on Geek and Sundry, 

where I take a bunch of other voice actors and

run them through a fantastical fantasy adventure 

through the world of Dungeons and Dragons. 

We play every Thursday at 7 PM Pacific Standard time 

on Geek and Sundry's Twitch stream. 

Please come watch us live if you have the opportunity.

Back episodes and future episodes will be 

uploaded on the Geek and Sundry website.

So, you can also check them out there. 

In the meantime, enjoy!

MATT: Welcome to first episode of Critical Role, 

and what this basically is,

is a continuation of our weekly D&D game.

Me and a bunch of other likely nerdy and enjoyable 

voice actors gathering around,

rolling some dice, killing some creatures, 

having some adventure. 

And now we have the pleasure of it bringing it 

on the stream for you to watch,

enjoy, and occasionally interact with.

So before we get to that: to give you a little backstory 

on the characters you'll be seeing this evening, 

we're going to play some videos for you in just a second. 

But, do note for all you hardcore gamers out there, 

a lot of this is house-ruled,

kinda loosey-goosey having a good time. 

So all you number crunchers, stop paying attention there, 

just have fun with it. 

But nevertheless, we have some background story 

on many of the characters you'll be seeing this evening 

to help you jump into the story. 

Let’s go ahead and enjoy those in just a minute then 

we'll introduce the players, so, have fun.

Grog: Right, Listen up! If you have ale, 

then you have a friend in Grog Strongjaw!

A goliath of towering height and size, 

this barbarian has an appetite for the two great

loves in his life: combat, women, and ale! (chuckle)

(record scratch)

Wait.

Easily the brains of the group, 

Grog is often consulted for his vast knowledge

of shapes, colors, and (chuckle) shiny things!

...also ale.

In his early years, armed with his two handed great axe, 

Grog often enjoyed proving his might amongst the ranks 

of his family's wandering herd. 

But after coming upon an unsuspecting elderly gnome in the woods, 

he objected to the killing such an innocent life.

A creature of impulse, Grog felt only pity for this... 

well this terrified little thing. 

And his disobedience cost him dearly.

(weapon crack)

Beaten bloody, and banished by the herd leader, 

his uncle Kevdak,

Grog was abandoned and left to die.

Exiled from his herd, it was then that 

the relative of the very gnome he fought to save, 

saved him. 

It was the kindness of a gnome cleric named Pike, 

that healed Grog, bringing him back from death's edge. 

And they have remained close friends ever since. 

(brawling sounds)

Most nights, Grog can be found challenging 

entire taverns to wrestling matches! Ha! 

...or accompanying Scanlan to the nearest house, 

where you pay for... 

lady favors. 

Also ale!

Keyleth: A first Impression of Keyleth would 

leave you with little information

on the half-elven druid. 

You might even think that her social awkwardness

due to her sheltered upbringing is kinda sweet. 

(chuckle)

Of course, it would be unwise underestimate her 

based on first impressions.

(thunder crack)

Under that unintimidating petite frame is a 

vicious beast waiting to be unleashed,

whose natural powers have made even the fiercest of 

champions pee their pants, literally! 

(soft chuckle)

Born to the Air Tribe of the Ashari people, 

Keyleth was raised with a deep love

of nature and the elemental magics. 

It is her people’s inherent duty to protect the 

delicate areas in Tal'Dorei 

where the four elemental planes begin to bleed with this realm. 

Since she was a little girl, she had quite a knack 

for air manipulation and beast shaping abilities. 

Well, if you consider Kittens and 

flying squirrels to be little beasts.

Which, I do. 

(clears throat) 

Anyways, it wasn't long before the headmaster of the tribe, 

her father, Kohren,

realized her true prodigious abilities and 

she was inveterated to succeed him as the next headmaster.

Just like that, her jovial childhood was stripped and 

replaced with endless spell memorization, 

teachings from ancient traditions, 

and exceedingly high expectations. 

Every druid leader to be must embark on journey 

to seek out the sister tribes

in order to introduce and establish respect 

amongst the fellow headmasters. 

They call this the Aramente, or Noble Odyssey.

When her father felt she was ready, he set her on the path 

to truly discovering herself. 

Not knowing when, or if she will ever return. 

As she hiked down the mountain towards Stillben, 

she meditated on the task ahead. 

Part of the Aramente is proving yourself 

a strong warrior, a valiant protector,

and a wise and compassionate leader. 

With this knowledge, one thought plays

in repeat in her mind:

Is she even worthy?

Percy: Percy was the third child of 7 children, 

born to a noble family who lived far to the

north in the ancient castle of Whitestone. 

With so many siblings to share the burdens of 

lordship, Percy turned his attention to the 

sciences, engineering, and naturalism.

One day, a mysterious couple, 

named Lord and Lady Briarwood, came to court. 

During a feast held in their honour, 

the Briarwoods violently took control of the castle, 

killing or imprisoning everyone who would stand in their way.

Percy awoke chained in the dungeon, 

only to be freed by his younger sister. 

Together they fled, chased by the Briarwoods’ men. 

As they ran, Percy’s sister took 

several arrows to the chest and fell. 

Percy kept running, eventually jumping into 

a freezing river and floating unconscious to freedom. 

He did not remember waking up on a fishing boat. 

He barely remembered the next two years, as he 

slowly made his way as far south as possible.

Then one night, Percy had a dream. 

A roaring cloud of smoke offered him 

vengeance against those who destroyed his family. 

When he awoke, Percy began to design his first gun.

Scanlan: Oh, you haven’t heard of Scanlan Shorthalt? 

Well, gird your loins, ladies, 

because he has his eye on you. 

A talented musician, master of disguise, and dashingly 

handsome in his own mind, Scanlan sings songs 

almost as much as he sings his own praises.

Born a poor Gnome, Scanlan used his endless 

charm and soaring tenor voice to

croon for coin and support his single mother. 

One day he was discovered by a half-orc promoter, 

and joined Dr. Dranzel’s Spectacular Traveling Troupe

where he learned the ways of the world, 

and honed his skills as a bard extraordinaire.

A loner much of his life, Scanlan has never quite 

come to terms with the violent

death of his mother at the hands of a Goblin invasion. 

While his years on the road provided many, shall we say, 

educational experiences with the opposite sex, 

deep down Scanlan yearns for the one thing 

he’s never known: the true love 

of a fellow Gnome.

Still, Scanlan considers himself a lover first, 

performer second, and fighter distant third. 

On the battlefield, he’ll support his allies, 

but rarely draws blood unless it’s to protect 

fellow Gnome, Pike. Count on Scanlan for a hearty laugh, 

a rollicking song, and a twinkle in his eye that melts hearts 

and makes the females swoon.

Tiberius: Greetings and salutations. 

I am Tiberius Stormwind. 

I hail from a town called Ty'rex, 

located in the heart of Draconia, 

born from a politically respected family.

At the age of 15, I succeeded in passing the Sorcerer’s Rite, 

showing prodigy-like control of my magic. 

The judges and the Draconian high council were amazed at 

how powerful my spells were for how long I had been training. 

At 20 years old, I was the youngest appointed member 

of the magic guild in Draconian history. For the 

next few years, I almost went mad from the 

malaise of being a guild member, 

as it’s rather boring.

However, one day I happened upon a chamber, 

unused for quite some time. 

In the room were stacks of books and maps 

of the surrounding cities and areas 

around the known world. 

For months I would frequent the chamber, and learned 

of artifacts from legend. 

After a long period of research, I made a list of artifacts 

that caught my eye. 

I brought these findings to the high council and was told that 

all of the information in the chamber I had stumbled upon 

was either believed to be fiction, or unsolvable mysteries, 

and hence were lost forever. 

I found those answers to be unacceptable.

A year later I devised a ruse and managed to 

convince the city council to lend support 

in me leaving Draconia on a mission of peace 

and diplomacy for the surrounding kingdoms. 

Going from town to town and making friends and allies, 

in and for the name of Draconia. 

Being a red dragonborn, 

I had quite the task on my hands in that respect, 

but it was exactly what I needed so I could explore 

the world and find these artifacts, 

as I felt the truth was out there.

Some may describe me as buffoonish, 

but I say poppycock to all that. 

I am much sharper than most give me credit for. 

I just don’t pay attention to things sometimes. 

I’ve also been known to be rather cunning, loyal, 

happy-go-lucky, and well, dangerous. 

I can’t help but show my true scales every now and then. 

But overall, I think I’m quite friendly for a Dragonborn.

Vax: Never entirely welcome in the company of 

elves or men, Vax'ildan learned 

at a young age to skip past formality, 

preferring instead to invite himself in your door.

Along with twin sister Vex'ahlia, 

Vax was born by a chance encounter between Elven 

royalty and Human peasantry. 

Raised by their mother in their early years, the twins 

were eventually sent off to their father 

in the Elven capital of Singorn. 

But their cool reception among the Elves there never warmed, 

and their time in the capital didn’t last. 

The siblings stole away one autumn night and set out on 

the open road. 

After a few years of wandering, they eventually decided to 

return to their mother, and journeyed 

back to the lands of their youth. 

But instead of finding their childhood home, 

they returned to a pile of rubble. 

Their mother was gone, their home burned to ash. 

Pressing the townspeople for answers, 

they learned of the day the dragon came.

With their ties all severed, Vax'ildan and his sister 

set out to find their fortune together in Tal'Dorei. 

An outsider since birth, Vax quickly learned to solve life’s 

challenges in his own particular way, 

often by sidestepping them entirely. 

And when his knack for circumventing adversity isn’t enough, 

the way of blades the elves schooled him in 

more than makes up the difference.

Vex: Like so many Half-Elves, 

Vex'ahlia has spent most of her life suffering 

the cool reception of a people who don’t fully accept her.

Born of a Human mother, and an elven father who only later in life 

took an interest in their existence, 

Vex'ahlia and her twin brother Vax'ildan quickly

realized the only people they could truly rely on 

in this world were each other.

It was at the age of 10 when the two were taken from their mother, 

and brought to live in Singorn, 

the isolated Elven city for which their father was an ambassador. 

He quietly took them in, but always kept an icy distance, 

and after too many years of disdainful looks, 

the pair decided to leave his indifference behind, 

and set out on their own.

Vax took to the cities, stealing small trinkets and 

learning the ways of the thief, 

while Vex kept to the woods. 

She preferred the isolation. 

Always the keen observer, she learned to hunt and to track, 

to spy and to shoot. 

And through a series of fateful events, 

earned herself a companion in the form of a bear - 

her own stolen Trinket - 

to fight alongside her and protect her fiercely. 

Also he is adorable, and gives expert massages.

MATT: All right, hey guys, welcome back.

So to give you a little heads up, 

we are playing the 5th edition of Dungeons and Dragons. 

We recently converted over from Pathfinder, 

for those who play Pathfinder.

And one of our players was a gunslinger for which there are 

no rules for in 5th edition.

So I had to create and customize those 

for the game, so bear with us on that. 

That will be an interesting ride regardless.

We do have an 8 player game we’ve been playing for two years 

which is a little crazy, 

which is why we go a little loose with the rules. 

But it's a great group, 

it's a lot of fun, and not everyone can make every game 

so we have enough players to definitely pull a party each time.

Zac: (Off screen) Just so you know we're having an audio bottleneck. 

It'll take about 30 seconds to work itself out. 

MATT: Okay, audio bottleneck. 

MATT: You let us know when it’s okay to talk.

TRAVIS: I don’t know what that means, a bottleneck.

MATT: Are we all right? And how are we? 

Exterminate. Exterminate.

SAM: Nice, nice. 

Audio isn't working they're going to watch something else. 

Thanks, douche.

(all laugh)

MATT: Is the mic adjusted? Is it any better?

Zack: (Off screen) Better now. We're good.

MATT: All right, well good, well great. Thank you guys.

So a couple of things transitioned from Pathfinder to 5th edition 

may be a little strange and fun.

MATT: We have a lot of players but they're great folks and 

most of that just means I have to work really hard to make sure 

the game keeps going, so that's on me.

MATT: Ashley Johnson, unfortunately, cannot join us. 

She's our gnome cleric, Pike. 

She'll be here next week.

MATT: Unfortunately, she's in London accepting a BAFTA, 

so I think we're okay. 

For the Last of Us. That's harsh.

TRAVIS: Yeah!s

MATT: Yeah, also no donations this week, 

but going forward we will have donations available 

for those that will help partially run the show 

from our local cameraman and crew.

MATT: Also half of our donations will go to charity. 

For the 826 charity, MARISHA if you want to talk 

a little about that.

MARISHA: Yes! 826LA is a charity that focuses on 

tutoring children in an after-school program and 

helping specifically with creativity, storytelling, 

art and general things that kind of relate to Dungeons & Dragons.

You should definitely check out the Time Travel Mart, 

which there is one in Echo Park and one in Mar Vista. 

So they have this amazing storefront 

where you can buy these awesome tchotchkes 

and things that go immediately to support the charity and the stream. 

And it's awesome. It's 826LA, you should look it up.

And there's a few all over the country.

MATT: Yes. Also as a heads up,

‘cause I saw some of you guys ask me in the chatroom. 

These videos will be available on the 

Geek and Sundry YouTube Channel soon enough, 

as well as a more extensive backstory of the party. 

So we'll have all that content ready for you 

so you don't have to memorize it. 

Maybe a bio page, I don't know. 

We'll figure something out. It'll be fine. 

But anyway, let's open that up. 

You know who I am. MATThew Mercer, voice actor 

and I've been running this game for two years. 

I'm a hardcore nerd. 

Let's go around the table and introduce our players 

so you can attach the faces to the intros you just saw. 

Let's start on this side with TRAVIS.

TRAVIS: Oh! Hi. I'm TRAVIS Willingham, voice actor, gamer. 

I play Grog the Goliath Barbarian.

LAURA: Hi. I'm LAURA Bailey. I'm also, you know, 

a voice actor like kind of everyone here. 

TRAVIS: Yeah. I think we all are.

LAURA: And I'm playing Vex'ahlia. The coolest chick ever.

(all laugh)

MATT: The ranger with the bear.

LAURA: The ranger with the bear named Trinket 

in case you didn't catch that. 

His name is Trinket and he's amazing.

LIAM: Hi, I'm LIAM O'Brien. I'm playing Vax'ildan. 

This one's twin. We're Half-Elven twins.

And I started playing D&D when I was 13 and 

I can't believe this is happening. So -

(all laugh)

LIAM: Cheers. Cheers to this.

Taliesin: My name is Taliesin Jaffe. 

I'm a voice actor, director, 

and I've been playing some form of Dungeons and Dragons, 

and if you can't tell by my black clothing, 

a lot of Vampire the Masquerade when I was a teenager.

There was a problem. 

I'm playing Percy, the Gunslinger. 

So I'm the reason all the rules are all messed up.

(all laugh)

MARISHA: I am Keyleth, the Druid from the tribe of the Air Ashari. 

And I am a Half-Elven person.

MATT: No, you're Elven.

MARISHA: No, Half-Elf.

MATT: Half-Elf. Okay.

MARISHA: Yeah, Come on man. I've been Half-Elf since day one.

MATT: We have a lot of Half-Elves.

LAURA: Yeah we do.

MATT: I misunderstood.

MARISHA: Yes! You can see me shooting lightning and 

turning into awesome animals.

MATT: ORION.

ORION: Hi.

MATT: Hi.

ORION: Hey everybody.

(all laugh)

ORION: I'm ORION Acaba and I'm also a voice actor. 

I do things.

MARISHA: Oh, I'm MARISHA Ray, by the way.

ORION: Yeah!

MARISHA: Did I say that?

ORION: Keyleth is MARISHA Ray.

MATT: Let ORION have his moment. Don't try and break...

ORION: No, it's our moment.

MATT: There ya go. All right.

ORION: And I'm Tiberius the awesome Sorcerer.

MATT: Dragonborn Sorcerer.

ORION: Dragonborn, yeah! That's right.

SAM: And I'm SAM Riegel a voice actor, and stuff. 

My Character is Scanlan Shorthalt. 

The Gnome Bard who sings a lot. 

And let's start playing, yeah?

(all cheer)

MATT: All right! Let's jump on in. Thank you. So! 

Last we left off, just to give you a little backstory. 

The party had completed a large venture 

in saving the nearby city of Emon. 

One of the central capitals of this 

human civilization of Tal'Dorei. 

They managed to halt a demonic insurrection within the throne 

and as such were greeted to a hero's celebration 

and have a keep built in their honor. 

Over the six month period of the keep being constructed, 

they went their own ways and then returned 

to see its final creation. 

However, they did not have a chance 

to really enjoy it immediately 

as one of their good friends and allies,

Arcanist Allura Vysoren of the Tal'Dorei council 

came to them requesting their aid saying that 

a long time friend of hers, Lady Kima of Vord, 

who is a very well known and very well respected 

Halfling Paladin of Bahamut the Platinum Dragon 

had been gone on a pilgrimage for a while. 

Essentially a vision quest that is part 

of her own development as a Paladin. 

As part of this, she let the information go to Allura 

that a dark vision had come to her 

saying that some sort of evil root is 

beginning to breed beneath Kraghammer and the mountains within.

Kraghammer, which is the nearby Dwarven civilization 

that you guys have previously not been allowed entry to. 

‘Cause the dwarves weren't fans of nobody 

without any political means of entry. 

However she managed to acquire the necessary documentation 

and offered you a very substantial reward 

should you find the whereabouts of Lady Kima of Vord 

and hopefully bring her back safely. 

You left on the pathway to the dwarven citadel of Kraghammer. 

You were ambushed by a group of roaming barbarian Goliaths.

Of which, partway through the battle, 

Grog managed to recognize one of them as a previous ally. 

And no longer an ally at this time.

TRAVIS: Son of a bitch.

MATT: Yep, the Barbarian for his first and only time so far 

managed to avert battle through a social encounter 

and rolled pretty damn well on a persuasion check. 

So you got one. You get one.

You got your one. Never again.

TRAVIS: Next time he dies.

MATT: Yeah. Essentially.

(all laugh)

MATT: But you managed to not turn it into complete bloodshed. 

And you continued on your way to Kraghammer, 

presented your paperwork, were given entry into the city 

and that is where we begin this adventure.

LAURA: Oh no.

SAM: In the city of Kraghammer?

MATT: In the city of Kraghammer.

SAM: Wow! This is fantastic.

TRAVIS: We’re in, right?

MARISHA: Yes.

MATT: So, you guys step-

MARISHA: We were at the door- We were talking to someone right?

MATT: Yeah, you were talking to the front guards 

at the gate of Kraghammer. 

They have begrudgingly let you inside. 

Giving you a couple of pointers little prods and sent you 

into the city proper. 

You made your way through the darkened alleyways 

and stone carved tunnel that leads into the main, 

central portion of the city proper. 

An enormous underground metropolis sprawls out before you- 

the dark earth and shadows creating beautiful stone work, 

marble columns, archways, and labyrinthine bridges 

climbing across the vertical city-scape.

All warmed within the red glow of some strange, 

crimson rock peppered throughout the town as a light source.

A large metal forge envelops the center of this cylindrical city. 

The entire is a three tiered cylindrical city that is built 

into the ground of the mountain itself. 

Welcome to Kraghammer!

LIAM: Remind us- Did we bullshit our way in here, or did- 

LAURA: No, we had a way in.

MATT: No, Allura got your paperwork 

because you were unable to get in this time.

LAURA: But, Ashley speaks dwarven- Pike speaks...

MATT: Pike- Pike speaks dwarvish.

LAURA: And she's not-

MATT: And she's not here.

Tiberius: I-I speak Dwarvish as well!

Vex'alia: Oh good!

Tiberius: I do.

Scanlan: That's fantastic.

Keyleth: Where’d you learn that?

Tiberius: From books.

MATT: The only other bit of information you have 

about the whereabouts of her 

is that she came here to go into the mine- 

Apparently a mithril mine where this evil is supposedly brewing. 

You heard that the one person who owns 

the biggest part of the mithril market

here kind of cornering it name was 

the Dwarven Lord Nostoc Greyspine. 

That was the only name you had in regards 

to this deep earth quarry.

SAM: Greyspine?

MATT: Greyspine- Correct.

Scanlan: We have to go find him, don't we?

Percy: I think before we do anything 

we should find a place to sleep.

Tiberius: That's true!

TRAVIS: Oh! We're all jacked up from before, right?

Percy: Wouldn't it be nice just to put 

everything down for a little while.

Scanlan: Of course. I've got a lot of - ahem - 

booty that I need to... stow.

(all laugh) 

Tiberius: Good way to phrase that, Scanlan.

Tiberius: Also I would like to check out any places 

where they might have enchanted libraries or what not.

Scanlan: Can you stick with us- 

You're the only one that speaks Dwarvish.

Vax: Yes, you're getting ahead of yourself.

Tiberius: I'm just saying put it on the list.

Vax: Let's look around.

LIAM: Are there any Dwarves in the vicinity?

MATT: Oh, there are many! 

And as you finish this conversation you look about 

there are two guards posted nearby wearing

dark, dark crimson and brass chest plates 

that have a uniform scar carved across the front.

It’s actually built into the armor itself as a design. 

And they're both just staring awkwardly at all of you 

arguing in the middle of this entry thoroughfare of Kraghammer.

Vax’ildan: Tiberius, make with the Dwarf-talk, please.

Tiberius: Uhm, hello friends.

My associates and I were looking for a place of lodging 

for the night and a place of reputable… reputation.

MATT: One dwarf kind of shouts over to another one- 

Guard 1: You hear that, Jepson?! 

They're lookin' for a place to stay.

Jepson: Aye, I heard that right.

It's 'bout time we had some new folk in town. 

Well if you're looking for a place to stay 

I'd say your best bet would be the Pig Pits.

Scanlan: Is that the name of a place?

Jepson: Yes! Certainly! The Pig Pits.

Scanlan: All right...

Jepson: Ask for the Pig Pits- 

Vex: Those are actually pig pits, isn't it.

Jepson: Maybe...

Keyleth: I feel like we're being hazed.

Jepson: What?! No, no! Not at all.

Grog: That sounds fine with me.

LIAM: This is common?

MATT: This is all in common, yeah.

Scanlan: Which way to the Pig Pits, sir?

Jepson: Pig Pits are that way.

MATT: And he points over the edge and you see down past

the central forge structure in the city at the very, 

very bottom nearby what looks like a large 

temple that envelops the larger - 

or the bottom floor of Kraghammer proper there is indeed 

a distant slop of mud where internal livestock are being kept.

LAURA: I bring out a piece of gold. 

Vex: Please, sir, we're looking for a place to stay 

that isn't covered in mud.

Jepson: Well it’s good to see that at least 

one of you speaks Dwarvish.

(all laugh)

MATT: Takes the coin, kinks it in his teeth and goes -

Jepson: All right, now if you're looking for a proper place to stay 

you're gonna look for the Iron Hearth Tavern. 

That is just to your left up that way no more than a half mile. 

Keep an eye out. 

Listen for the laughter and the people who are 

very, very drunk. 

That's your best bet.

Vex: Thank you, sir.

Jepson: No worries.

Vex: I like your armor by the way.

Guard: Well thank you kindly.

TRAVIS: Was that a wink?

LAURA: It was.

(all laugh)

LIAM: That’s all she does.

Vex: That's all I do: I wink at people.

LIAM: It’s a nervous tick, really.

MATT: It’s a feat she took.

(all laugh)

MATT: You progress to the western side of the Kraghammer rotation 

as you kind of curl around the central platform. 

Making your way, eventually to the outside of this rather large, 

central tavern inn. 

As you walk in, you can hear music playing, 

you can hear laughter and boastful cheer, 

you can hear some arguments in the distance. 

You can hear it form a good two or three buildings away. 

This is definitely a central social environment here in Kraghammer. 

As you walk inside, you- 

Let me get some proper tavern music here for you.

Scanlan: Smells in here.

Grog: Drinking territory. 

MATT: You hear some loud boisterous 

(hearty dwarven laughter) 

some drinks being clinked together. 

As you walk in the first thing that catches you 

is the scent of stale alcohol and the scent 

of smoked wood of some kind. 

Grog: YES.

MATT: There are tables, most of them in decent condition, 

some of them half broken and repaired, 

probably from some previous encounter in the bar. 

In the center of the room there looks to be a not currently in use, 

specifically built brawling circle. 

It’s about maybe... It’s about thirty feet by twenty feet. 

It’s more of an oval. It’s not in use, currently. 

SAM: An octagon? 

MATT: Essentially. 

LIAM: How high is the ceiling here? Can Grog fit in here?

MATT: (laughs)

LAURA: I was thinking the SAMe thing.

TRAVIS: (Laughing) Oh right, am I like... 

MATT: The ceiling actually is considered vaulted ceiling 

for dwarves so it runs at about seven feet. 

For Grog it’s an uncomfortable... 

Like almost scratching your head across the top.

LIAM: Just enough.

Grog: Bitch. 

Fuck.

MATT: And as you enter about seven or eight of the 

nearby dwarves at the front door go:

Dwarves: (hearty laughter) 

(laughter stops)

MATT: They just look immediately at the ragtag 

non-dwarven group that just kind of stumbled 

into the center of the tavern. 

Grog: What're you looking at?

Dwarf: It’s not very often we get someone 

with that kind of a mug down here. 

Let me buy ya a drink, come sit down!

Grog: My kind of people, see ya later! 

(all laugh) 

Grog: I go grab the drink with the lovely dwarves.

Vex: We grab a table next to the dwarves with Grog.

MATT: All right. Both tables next to the table they're at 

are completely filled with dwarves. 

LIAM: I take a sack of gold from my own pocket, 

slam it down on the table-

Vex: A sack of gold, are you crazy?!

Vax: Gentlemens and la- uh. 

LIAM: “Gentlemens and ladies."

Vax: Ladies and gentlemen we are traveling from far away. 

We just arrived from Emon. 

We are fascinated to see your underground city 

and to celebrate the occasion I would like to buy 

every dwarf in here a round. 

TRAVIS: Shit. 

Vax: Bartender! 

(MATT turns off music.)

MATT: The music stops. The conversation stops.

(all laugh) 

MATT: All dwarven eyes turn to the table and 

they all turn to a single dwarven woman in the back 

who's behind one of the bars, 

who has a towel over one arm. 

And she's kind of looking around, 

she’s staring confused at you and 

all eyes are on her, and she goes:

Dwarven Barkeep: Well it's about time someone around here 

had some generosity! Certainly, pay upfront.

Drinks all around on this Half-Elven gentleman. 

Vax: Let it rain! 

(all cheer)

MARISHA: Make it rain.

Grog: I would like a cask of ale.

Vax: I'll need your largest bowl of ale for this one here.

Gorg: Cask. Cask.

Vax: Cask please.

Grog: -cask of ale. Cask. 

Dwarven Barkeep: No worries, Adra's got your back, be right back. 

MATT: ...and she wanders off to the back room, 

comes back and starts pouring

stein after stein after stein of ale.

Grog: Yeah. Keep going. Looks good. 

MATT: You do notice she is definitely the head of this tavern 

and all of her barkeeps are male

and seem to be worked rather ragged.

TRAVIS: (To LAURA) Do we have her name? 

LAURA: What was her name? 

Scanlan: Excuse me, miss...

TRAVIS: Yeah, get her name.

Scanlan: - you.

Adra: Adra. Yeah? 

Scanlan: I'm sorry what was - 

Adra: (Slowly) Adra.

Scanlan: Adra! You run a fantastic establishment.

Adra: That's right I do!

Scanlan: Thank you for welcoming us and allowing us to buy this round.

Adra: Of course. Patrons that come and drop coin like that 

are welcome any time. 

Scanlan: Well, thank you for your hospitality. 

Might we inquire about staying here the night? 

Do you have an inn with the establishment? 

MATT: She reaches below and pulls out a big tome and 

starts thumbing through it.

Adra: You know actually we have openings right now 

on the second floor.

Scanlan: Several rooms, or just one?

Adra: Do you need them side by side?

Scanlan: That would be nice.

Adra: (under her breath) We could pull him there 

and push him into room seven...

Scanlan: Something with a little bed for me.

Adra: Giles!

MATT: One of the dwarf barmaid-ers kind of looks over.

Giles: Aye?

Adra: Get Stephson out of his room, move him to the third floor. 

We have to open a block for our new guests. 

Gile: Egh, fine, fine...

MATT: And the older dwarf kind of stumbles 

his way up the stairs begrudgingly.

Adra: Right, so I can get a room for each of you, 

we're looking at eight rooms separately, 

that will run you per evening about 25 gold pieces. 

Does that sound about right?

Grog: Total? 

Adra: 25 total pieces. 

Scanlan: Oh, okay, okay.

Grog: Right.

Vex: You want to share a room? I think we can probably bunk up.

Keyleth: Yeah! We'll bunk up.  

Scanlan: Grog you and me, I can just sleep on your feet.

Vex: Throw down less gold, maybe like, 15 gold then for, 

you know, just that amount.

MATT: She visibly deflates a little bit and is like... 

Adra: All right, fair enough. fair enough. 

Five rooms it is. 15 gold per room.

Scanlan: We're penny pinchers.

Adra: How long do you expect to stay? 

Tiberius: At least a few days. 

Scanlan: I'd say a week.

Percy: With an indefinite hold, we have business in the city.

Adra: Right! Well how bout we pay the week in advance 

and I'll give you a discount? 

Tiberius: I love discounts! 

Vex: What's the discount?

Keyleth: Wait. I thought we were going to be heading south?

Adra: Let’s see, for five rooms -

TRAVIS: Here comes the haggler.

Adra: Lets say, 100 gold for the week, all five rooms. 

Vax: We're pretty flush, I think we can handle it.

Vex: Yes. 

Vex: That works.

Grog: All right.

Scanlan: Just go for it.

Percy: This doesn't terrify me.

Vax: Let’s get it. Get the discount.

Vex: I think I did the math wrong.

TRAVIS: I was told there would be no math.

Scanlan: Sounds good!

TRAVIS: We’ll take it!

Vex: Gah! I hate not having a calculator! Fine!

Adra: Ah! Great!

MATT: She pulls back and pulls some keys out 

and hands them to the rest of you. 

Hands you some paperwork, shows you which rooms 

are yours and says:

Adra: You're welcome to stay all ya like, 

ask questions, hang about. 

Just make sure you don't do anything stupid near the Carvers.

Tiberius: Ooh! Like what? I do things like that all the time!

Vax: Sorry. Our Dwarvish is a little thick. Near the-?

Adra: The Carvers, the Carvers!

Vex: The carvas. Of course.

Adra: The Carvers!

Tiberius: The Converse! Of course!

Scanlan: The Car Verse?

Adra: Is this your first time in Kraghammer?

Everyone: Yes!

Adra: The Carvers are the guard that run this city. 

They're the ones that keep the law.

Vex: The scar!

Adra: Yes, the armor, the Carvers!

Grog: Yeah, what is with the scar? I've got one myself. 

Tiberius: Oh, the Carvers!

MATT: At which point she kind of leans back and as you reveal 

the rather gnarled scar in your chest. 

She reels back a bit and two of the nearby dwarves go:

Nearby Dwarves: Yeah!

MATT: And they chug down their drinks.

(all laugh)

Grog: Yeah! More drinking!

MATT: They start showing their scars. And are like:

Dwarf 1: Oh no! I got this one from an iron bolt!

MATT: And they start talking about different creatures they fought.

Adra: All right. Well, the carvers are a bit of a... 

how do I put it? A military class in this city. 

They run a very tight ship on the streets, so just be careful.

Percy: That shouldn't be a problem.

Scanlan: Thank you.

Percy: Mostly we are just looking for Lord Greyspine if I recall. 

We just have business with him.

Vex: Yes, actually we might have business with you, 

if you've seen a halfling come through.

MATT: She thinks to herself and goes:

Adra: Hm. There was a halfling woman, 

but she was staying at the Firebrook Inn.

Vex: The Firebrook.

Adra: The bottom floor, for a couple of weeks.

Keyleth: In where?

Adra: There was talk about her. 

She got in a few fights herself.

Vex: Oh, she did?

Adra: The one with the silver armor? That one?

Vex: Yeah.

Adra: Yeah, she was a firebrand if ever I saw one. 

Right up my alley, I like that one.

Percy: How long ago would you say this was?

Adra: Oh, she went through a few weeks, 

I haven't seen her recently.

Percy: Thank you. Perfect.

Grog: Is there a champion of the circle of fighting in the tavern?

SAM: Oh Jesus... 

Grog: Is there a reigning...

Scanlan: Already Grog?!

Grog: Well I have to know these things!

(all laugh)

Taliesin: He has to do something.

MATT: She turns the barrel that she has on the table 

towards you a little bit and you can see the actual symbol, 

this kind of burned image on the side that says, 

"Balgus Brewery." And she goes:

Adra: That'll be Balgus. 

The one that supplies us with what you're drinking. 

He's the undefeated champion.

Adra: But, I don't think he's quite right to fight at the moment.

MATT: And she points towards the very edge of the bar and 

you see one older grizzled dwarf, long gray hair 

pulled into straight braids in the back. 

Big bushy beard that's all shoved up 

into his face ‘cause he's asleep, 

drunk as a skunk, on the edge of the bar.

Balgus: (snores)

Grog: My type o' dwarf.

TRAVIS: Maybe we'll can use him as a merc later or something.

Grog: All right, another time then, another time.

Scanlan: Another time.

Vax: Save it for a rainy day.

Keyleth: Yeah.

TRAVIS: Does it rain down here?

Taliesin: I don't think they have rainy days.

Adra: You said Greyspine?

Vex: Yes, Greyspine.

Percy: We are looking to set up a meeting.

Adra: Which Greyspine?

Scanlan: Nostoc? 

Adra: Nostoc Greyspine… he's definitely a business type one.

Tiberius: Well who's the friendlier Greypsine?

Adra: The friendlier of the types would probably be 

the head of House Greyspine. 

Keyleth: Wait wait, how many Greypsines are there?

Adra: Oh, well there's probably several at this point, 

I've lost track. 

The family line has being going for a while. 

However! Of House Greypsine currently,

Ironkeeper Gradim Greyspine is the head of this entire city. 

Voted in 10 years ago actually. He's head of the council.

MARISHA: Ironkeeper what?

Adra: Ironkeeper Gradim Greypsine.

Adra: Gradim! You're -

(sigh)

These commoners. Learn to speak the language!

Tiberius: I understood!

Vax: Adra, may I ask, obviously we have no dwarves in our little party.

Adra: Unfortunately.

Vex: Unfortunately for us.

Vax: Sorry, about that. How… You're very welcoming. 

I appreciate that. 

How welcoming would you say the city is to outsiders?

Vax: Wouldn't we stick out like a sore thumb?

Adra: Probably. As long as you don't do anything stupid.

And as long as you keep the coin flowing, 

and as long as you stay to the upper levels.

Adra: The lower levels you get to more of the business. 

The miners, the forgers, the foundries.

Vex: The mines.

Adra: When you get to the business areas that's where 

the guard gets heavier and that's where folks don't 

like you poking near their money.

Tiberius: Yeah!

Scanlan: So the lower levels would have the mithril mines?

Adra: THE mithril mine, aye.

Scanlan: There's one?

Adra: There is one now. It's all been, 

and has been for quite some time, 

completely helmed up and run by house Greypsine. 

The Keystone Quarry is what you're looking for.

Vax: We're not really interested in that.

We just want to see the city. Our business is elsewhere.

Adra: Yeah, I would not recommend it. 

Not without proper business credentials on that. 

You'll end up being questioned very heavily.

Vax: Sounds like a dirty business anyway.

Vex: Right.

Grog: Yeah, you want to stay away from those miners Scanlan, 

that's a dirty business.

Adra: She gives you a look almost like 

it was a slightly racist statement, 

but then passes it off 'cause you paid her a lot of coin today.

MARISHA: So racist.

Taliesin: That's a little racist.

Vex: So...

Vex: No-stock. Nostoc?

Vax: Nostoc.

Vex: Nostoc Grey… spine.

Adra: Yes.

Vex: You said that he's kind of a - ?

Adra: Oh, there's a reason he's the one put in charge of the mines 

and the businesses and the foundries. 

Vex: Oh. Where is he located, exactly?

Adra: Well, if he's not home, at the actual Greyspine Manor

which is a sprawling house. 

It contains all the ones who live there.

Vex: Oh, right.

Adra: Ah. He's probably down at the actual, at the, what is it -

MATT: Pardon - bear with me - consult my notes!

Adra: He's probably down by the Greyspine quarry itself, 

keeping an eye on the business there.

MATT: There's a nearby dwarf, at this point, kind of near, 

he's having a few drinks; goes -

Drinking Dwarf: Ah, Greyspine, there's been troubles round there! 

Apparently, a friend of mine works there. 

Got a big, nasty scar last week.

Wouldn't even pay 'im for his time off ta heal. 

It's bullshit!

MATT: He slams his drink down on the table.

Scanlan: Down at the quarry?

Drinking Dwarf: Aye. 

Keyleth: How did your friend get this nasty cut?

Drinking Dwarf: He works there! 

Said there was things pourin' out of the caves.

Vex: (gasp) What kind of things?

Drinking Dwarf: Goblins and the like!

Vex: Goblins?

Scanlan: Goblins?

Drinking Dwarf: Ah, goblins are nothin’. 

Vex: Of course not. 

Drinking Dwarf: Seems there's something other than goblins 

pokin' out through this hole. 

Just sayin', that business is in for a serious problem 

if it doesn't change.

Vex: Does your friend ever have drinks here?

Drinking Dwarf: No. He's been sober for 2 years. 

We're not friends anymore.

Keyleth: Oh. 

MATT: Kind of tugs on his beard a little bit.

Keyleth: I'm... sorry. I think. 

Scanlan: A lot to process.

MATT: He pours another drink. At which point, 

Adra slaps his hand and says-

Adra: Pay that. He bought one round!

MATT: He finishes his drink and walks away.

Tiberius: Excuse me, uh, one thing Adra, are there any 

mystics in this particular town, that study any arcane arts?

Adra: Of course! What, you think dwarves 

are just the baseline folks who brawl each other?

Tiberius: Well, I haven't met any-

Keyleth: So many racist comments. Jeez!

Adra: What you're looking for is house Thunderbrand. 

They are the ones who, by blood, 

have the arcane arts in their family line.

Tiberius: Interesting.

Adra: They run most of the enchantment process in the city, 

they also train - they call it train, 

some of us call it more 'indoctrination' - 

But, they're definitely the focus of 

all arcane arts here in Kraghammer. 

Tiberius: Thank you.

Scanlan: Thank you for your time, Adra.

Adra: Of course!

Scanlan: Carry on with your evening, we'll seek you out 

if we have any more questions.

Adra: Certainly. Now if you don't mind -

MATT: She scoots you aside, and you see a line, 

a queue of dwarves behind her, 

with their empty cups,

waiting to get to her to fill up the drinks that you bought.

MARISHA: Oh, that's - we did promise that.

TRAVIS: Oh, right.

Vax: Enjoy, gentlemen! And lady. 

LAURA: What time of day is it?

MATT: Best that you can tell, inside - you can't. 

LAURA: Oh, right.

MATT: But you just arrived, probably around 3 or 4 in the afternoon,

so you're probably pushing sunset right about now.

Vex: Do dwarves carry the SAMe schedule?

Keyleth: I dunno.

Vex: Does anyone know?

Percy: There's only one way to find out.

Vex: Does anyone know -

MATT: Make an intelligence check!

TRAVIS: Oh! Roll it! You're the first one.

LIAM: First time rolling. 

Nice!

LAURA: 18, plus, what is that? Investigation? Or insight?

MATT: This would be just a straight intelligence roll on this one, 

so just, your general knowledge of dwarves. 

LAURA: Oh. 20 then.

MATT: 20. (Italian accent) That's not too bad! 

That's not too bad. In your experience, you know dwarves, 

depending on their lifestyle

and what they do for a living, their clocks can run differently, 

but for the most part, they run in tandem with most other races. 

Just because it makes it easier for dealing with outside forces. 

But, like I said, it's very variable. 

There is nob set, locked time of: this is morning, this is evening, 

they just kind of sleep when they need to 

and wake up when they need to. 

LAURA: All right. Good to know.

MARISHA: It's like living in Alaska.

LAURA: Right!

MATT: Kind of.

MATT: Dwarven Alaska.

Vax: Where?

MARISHA: Dwarven Alaska.

Taliesin: Gnome Alaska.

TRAVIS: Should we go to the Fire Brick Inn?

Vex: I think, yes. Two things.

Scanlan: Yes, fellows, what should we do?

Vex: Check out the Fire Brick Inn, yes -

That was where Lady Kima was staying.

Vex: And also, I think somebody should 

run reconnaissance on Greyspine Manor.

Grog: Like stealth, you mean?

Vax: Yes. I don't think we should try to go directly 

to the mines and find Nostoc.

Vex: No.

Scanlan: Agreed.

Vax: No, I think maybe we should enlist 

the help of a dwarf here in the city

to introduce us to Nostoc. 

I mean, we're not trying to raise hell, 

or bring down a thousand dwarves upon us. 

Percy: And there's no sense attempting to be subtle.

Scanlan: Although, that does sound fun.

Percy: Everyone’s going to know that we're here, 

and what we're looking for by morning.

Keyleth: Yeah.

Grog: Why don't we get old Drunky Greybeard that's got his 

face down on the bar to do it?

Vex: Yeah, but he's very- Well, let's ask him. 

Maybe he's drunk enough to help us. 

Saddle up, Grog!

Grog: Me?

Vex: People seem to like you here.

Grog: Yeah, but I'm really- aw, that's true.

Vax: You're the connoisseur. 

Grog: Maybe I'll part my armour, so he can see the scar.

Vex: Go show him your scar, see what he does.

Grog: Post up on the bar?

Keyleth: Take him a drink!

Percy: Let him touch it.

Grog: All right.

Keyleth: Take him a drink.

Vex: Yes, take him a drink. A very large drink.

Grog: I would like to get a very large - 

the largest goblet you have of ale, 

and I would like to go over to, what was his name? 

Bulbous?

MATT: (laughs) Balgus. 

Grog: Balgus.

Everyone: (repeating) Balgus.

Grog: I had it right.

MATT: Close. 

Grog: Balgus. And I would like to, um-

SAM: I'm coming with Grog.

Grog: Yes, yes. And I would like to go up and put my scar, 

and post up on the bar and-

(clears throat dramatically)

Balgus: (snores)

LIAM: (laughs)

Grog: (clears throat even more dramatically)

LAURA: (Laughs)

Scanlan: I take out my flute and 

I play a little healing words spell.

And try to heal him of his drunkenness.

LAURA: Just a little of his drunkenness, 

not all of his drunkenness.

TRAVIS: He likes him drunk, so maybe like, half.

MATT: All right, so, as you play your tune, 

a beautiful little tune that saunters through the air.

SAM: (makes flute sounds)

MATT: The magical energies emanate from the notes you make,

kind of drift into his torso; you can see a slight glow and he -

Balgus: (grumbling, waking up noises)

Where's that blasted music coming from?

(all laugh)

MATT: His hand goes out and paws towards the flute.

Scanlan: Huh, I don't know where that was coming from.

Grog: I'm sorry, sorry to disturb you, your name is of

great repute around these parts.

MATT: And as he wipes a globule of drool that's kind of 

crusted into his beard.

Balgus: Aye, you've bothered me nap. 

What d'you want from Balgus?

Grog: We were wonderin' if we might, perchance, 

acquire your knowledge about town,

uh, for a bit of a search -

Vex: (whispered) Talk to him about fighting first.

Grog: Right, I hear you're a good fighter. 

You look strong.

Balgus: I've 'eard the SAMe.

Grog: Right, um - 

(clears throat) 

How often do you get challengers in this tavern?

Vax: Careful.

Balgus: (sighs) Not as often as I get woken up from my sleep.

Which is never. 

Because only stupid people do that.

Vex: Lost cause. Abandon ship, abandon ship!

Grog: Right. I have an intelligence of six, 

I know what I'm doing.

Vex: Okay.

(all laugh)

Grog: There is a very pretty lady over there, 

with slightly pointy ears - 

(to Vex) I'm talking about you - (to Keyleth) or you -

There's two of them! And they were actually wanting to ask you

a question if you wouldn't mind.

MATT: Make a persuasion roll.

TRAVIS: Me?!

SAM: Oh, shit.

MARISHA: What?

SAM: Why is he doing this?

LAURA: Why would you throw this to us?

MARISHA: I know. Why didn't - because you were failing?

TRAVIS: Because I was either gonna fight him 

or I was gonna throw boobs at him, 

and I went with boobs.

LAURA: All right, all right.

MARISHA: He realized he was sinking.

MATT: That’s level 10 you get that, by the way. 

Throw Boobs.

LAURA: Persuasion.

LAURA: Oh! Good roll.

TRAVIS: 19!

LAURA: Woo!

MATT: 19?

Taliesin: Yeah.

MATT: He takes a moment, and grabs the drink that you

prepared from his hand and goes -

(gulps)

Grog: Nice one.

Balgus: You've got five minutes.

MATT: Then he kind of stretches his back a bit. 

You can see this like, gnarled

hunch that he holds in his physical posture, flexes it a bit, 

and now you can see the rippling muscles that show beneath his tunic.

Grog: Sweet.

MATT: This is a built dwarf. 

You don't know what past he's had, 

moving boulders or forging crazy iron shit, 

but there's a reason this guy has a reputation. 

And he stands up off of his stool,

which you can now hear crack with the weight of a dwarf, 

which are made for normal dwarves. 

This guy is solid muscle.

And he saunters over, looks about

for a second, almost like he's looking for his next target. 

Sees the pointy ears, sees the pointy ears, and goes 

(sighs) 

and just saunters up to the table, slams his hand down.

Keyleth: Why is he coming towards us?

Grog: ‘Cause I told him to.

'Cause you're supposed to ask him -

Scanlan: Boobs. Boobs!

Vax: Steady as she goes ladies.

MATT: He sits down.

Keyleth: (whispered to Vex) You're better at this than I am.

Balgus: You called for Balgus, why?

Vex: Oh! Hello Balgus.

Keyleth: Hi… Balgus.

Vex: You're so… we just heard you're so… 

impressive and masculine.

Keyleth: Yes!

Vex: We really wanted to talk to you.

ORION: I use my Earring of Whisper to Vex.

Tiberius: Cool it, cool it down.

Vex: Oh sh- okay.

Tiberius: Calm down. Not so sexy.

MARISHA: I reach out and I stroke his bicep.

SAM: Oh, Jesus.

MARISHA: Because I can't hear that.

ORION: I use it again, I'm like -

Tiberius: What are you doing? Keyleth, stop it.

Vax: I disagree, heat it up, heat it up.

MATT: (To MARISHA) Make a persuasion check.

TRAVIS: Roll well, roll well.

LAURA: Roll so good.

Taliesin: Roll like you mean it.

MARISHA: I'm really low in charisma. I'm really awkward. 

Uh, persuasion.

MATT: (in Balgus voice) Roll your persuasion.

Vax: Grog, pass the popcorn.

Taliesin: (groans)

LAURA: Oh no, what was it?

MARISHA: I rolled a two?

MATT: Plus?

MARISHA: Plus my persuasion of zero, 

because I have a shitty Charisma.

Scanlan: Why am I not talking to him?

MATT: As your arm reaches for his bicep-

MARISHA: I didn't say anything, I just touched him!

MATT: As your arm reaches for his bicep his hand with - 

belying his grumpy, half-asleep haze - 

with unnatural speed reaches out and just

(slap noise) 

slaps your hand to the side. Not painfully, but just -

Balgus: No touching the drunk dwarf.

Keyleth: Sorry.

Vex: Sorry about my friend Balgus. 

She's just so impressed with your… 

muscles. 

We've heard amazing things about you here.

Balgus: Have you?

Vex: We have.

Balgus: Tell me, what have you heard?

Vex: We've heard that no fighter can match your skill.

Balgus: You've heard correct.

Vex: We've heard that you know more 

about this town than anyone else.

Balgus: I've been around a bit, yeah.

Vex: Yeah. I bet nobody knows more about 

the Greyspines than you do

and they've been around a long time.

Balgus: That core of, political ass minds is what they are.

Scanlan: Assmanes? 

Balgus: Not key to them - ass minds.

Scanlan: Oh, ok.

Keyleth: Ass mines?

Balgus: They've got minds of an ass.

Vex: Yes, yes, ass minds.

Keyleth: Oh, I thought you meant like, mines that ex- 

Sorry. Go ahead.

No, ass minds. Yes, they have ass minds. 

LIAM: You rolled a two, be quiet.

Balgus: The Greyspines are no friend of mine. 

Vex: No, I've heard they're terrible. 

What do you do, Balgus?

Balgus: What do I do? I own the brewery in town!

Vex: (gasp) You do?

Balgus: The only one.

Vex: The best brewery?

Balgus: The only! Of course it's the best! 

I've put everyone out of business.

We export to most of Tal'Dorei.

Grog: You are my new favorite person.

Vex: This ale is amazing, that I'm drinking right now.

Balgus: Damn right it is!

MATT: You set it down and he takes it from your hand a little bit and

takes a sip himself and sets it down again.

Balgus: (inhales deeply)

(spits)

(all laugh)

Keyleth: So it seems that you aren't challenged often

in business and in fighting.

ORION: I saunter over.

Tiberius: Hello!

SAM: Oh Jesus.

LAURA: Oh god.

Tiberius: My name is Tiberius Stormwind!

Taliesin: We're all gonna die.

TRAVIS: We're all gonna die.

MATT: He glances over and says -

Balgus: Dragonborn.

I haven't fought one of your kind in a long time.

Tiberius: Oh! Who's the last dragonborn you fought? 

Do you remember his name?

Balgus: I recall his name was 'broken and bloody.'

Scanlan: I think that's a friend of yours.

Tiberius: No I know him! I know the bloody family, 

they're terrible people.

Anyway, my associates and I were wondering if you might come - 

ORION: Is that what we're doing? 

Trying to get him to come with us?

Scanlan: We're trying to find out more about Greyspine. 

Tiberius: Yes!

Scanlan: Where he might be or who his associates might be.

Keyleth: Gee, I'm so glad you came.

Tiberius: Would you like to accompany us on this

journey that we're taking?

LAURA: Oh god.

Tiberius: We're trying to find the Greyspines and you seem like

you would want to come in on this.

Percy: We think there might be something rotten in the mines.

MATT: Make a persuasion roll. You can assist if you like.

Taliesin: I'm assisting in this persuasion roll, good god.

LAURA: Oh god.

MATT: That just means he has advantage.

TRAVIS: Do we want to go to the mines or do we wanna go the house?

LAURA: No we want to go to the - 

I thought we wanted to go to the house.

ORION: Oh, I get advantage?

Taliesin: 21.

MATT: Yeah, so you get advantage on this roll.

SAM: So you roll twice.

MARISHA: What was the first thing you rolled?

ORION: 3. And I'll take the 18.

MARISHA: Definitely take that 18.

ORION: Oh and plus my - 

MARISHA: Persuasion.

MATT: So, he looks at you keenly, which-

ORION: Which is a 9.

MATT: Which is a 9?

ORION: Yes.

LAURA: Wow, you have a 9 persuasion?!

ORION: That's why I talk.

LAURA: What?!

MARISHA: He's pretty charismatic.

MATT: So he goes -

Balgus: Well no, I don't really want to go anywhere with ya. 

But, if you're looking to go ahead and talk to the Greyspines,

you don't want to go empty-handed.

Vex: No.

Balgus: It's customary to come with a gift of some kind.

Vex: Oh really?

Scanlan: What might they like?

Balgus: Well, let's just say, I have the finest brewery in the city.

Vex: Oh!

Balgus: And I have some fine, very rare, 

very exotic drinks that I could, perchance, sell to ya.

Vax: Pay the dwarf.

Vex: How much for this exotic ale?

Balgus: How exotic ya wantin’?

Tiberius: Ooh!

Vex: We want to get in the door. We want him to like us.

Balgus: I can give you the finest of 

thistle branch, darkblood wine. 

Vex: Ooh!

Balgus: This was crafted by myself, 

from a rare bloodthistle branch

that I had brought over from the far-off city of Kamorda.

This, I personally oversaw. 

It took me four years to fill this barrel full.

And it'll cost you 500 gold pieces. 

But is a king’s red wine!

MARISHA: Can I do a persuasion check or

a perception check to see if he's lying.

MATT: This would be insight. 

Go ahead and roll insight.

MARISHA: An insight check?

Taliesin: I'm gonna go walk over to Grog really quickly.

LAURA: (whispering to TRAVIS) What's in the bag of holding right now?

MARISHA: 27.

MATT: He seems too drunk to lie. 

ORION: Nice.

MARISHA: Okay. 

SAM: Let's just do it.

MATT: And an eager businessman.

Vex: Tell you what, Balgus.

Percy: Perhaps he would maybe, bet? 

Put forward a wager? In an oval. 

Do you have any thoughts on this, Grog?

MARISHA: But is it worth 500 gold?

ORION: Mm, probably.

Vex: We have some very rare items with us 

that I think you might be interested in.

Balgus: Make it quick! You've got one minute.

MARISHA: What?

Vex: We've got one minute? Well, we've got-

Balgus: My time is far worth the 500 gold 

you've already been talking about.

MARISHA: Yes, seems like it.

Vex: We've got this with us right now.

TRAVIS: We've got a bunch of dragon pieces.

Tiberius: Do you like dragon pieces?

Vex: We've got a dragon -

TRAVIS: We've got 37 dragon teeth, 1 dragon eye, 

4 cups of dragon blood -

Vex: We've got this cup of dragon blood! 

Which I know can be added to ale or wine 

and makes it quite sensational.

Percy: Grog! Battle wager?

MATT: He takes the sealed cup and sloshes it around in his hand.

And you can see, the, the actual liquid is coagulated 

to such a point that it's less of a blood 

and more of a gelatin. 

(sloshing sounds)

Vex: (whispers) That dragon blood is really expensive, actually.

Grog: It gets better with age.

Vex: Exactly, a spoon of it!

MATT: He peeks it open and -

(sniffs) 

Tiberius: Yes!

LAURA: I think that's really expensive, actually.

Balgus: I can have this appraised, 

but if you want to do a straight trade

for the barrel for this, I'll take you up on that.

LAURA: Shit, no.

SAM: Just go for it.

TRAVIS: We have four cups.

Vex: All right, fine! One cup of it.

Balgus: All right. 

MATT: He takes the thing, he takes the cup, 

puts it in a small satchel on his side.

Balgus: Adra!

Adra: Aye, what'dya want, you drunken bastard?

Balgus: They've bought me thistle blood wine. 

Take it out back. Here's the key.

MATT: And he tosses her the key. She grabs it and goes -

Adra: Really? Ooh, just walked in, they're buying fancy.

(all laugh)

MATT: She comes back with two of her 'barmaiders' 

who are begrudgingly carrying it with her. 

It's a nice barrel, it actually has like a gold

trimmed - the actual bands that hold the wood together 

is in itself gold.

The branding on the side is gold leafed into the wood, 

it's like fine, exquisite, we're talking like top shelf 

BevMo style awesome dwarven wine.

MARISHA: Topshelf at BevMo!

MATT: You look over and see - he pats it and he goes,

Balgus: All yours. And if this doesn't get you in the door, 

I'll eat my shoe.

Vex: Good to know.

Grog: Have you ever done that?

Balgus: Maybe, I forget a lot of nights.

Scanlan: Where might that door be?

Balgus: Minute’s up, you'll have to ask around, 

but it was great doing business with you. 

Tiberius: You too! 

Vex: Thanks, Balgus.

MATT: And he walks away from the table.

Grog: We gotta bag it. I put it in the bag of holding.

MATT: It does not fit in the bag of holding.

LAURA and TRAVIS: What?!

MATT: The barrel is too big, you barely -

Vex: You can carry it, Grog. Strap that to your -

MATT: You barely got Dork the ox in there. Which, for the record, 

they did fit a small ox in the bag of holding and then realized

later on that there was no airflow.

MARISHA: We killed the ox.

Taliesin: I feel like we weren't gonna discuss that, 

I felt that that was in the past and we were never -

MATT: I felt that was a necessary story.

Scanlan: Maybe if we drank some of it it would fit.

Tiberius: It doesn't work like that.

LAURA: I almost pulled out the orc - the troll dick. 

Is that still in there or no?

TRAVIS: No, we actually got rid of the troll dick.

LAURA: Oh, okay.

(all laugh)

Taliesin: (Laughing) Did we trade the troll dick for something?

MARISHA: I thought we like used it as a weapon.

TRAVIS: I offered it up, but by that time it had turned into a slimy...

LAURA: Ewww.

TRAVIS: It was still impressive, though.

MARISHA: I thought we threw it at somebody.

Vex: Can I stop Adra then and ask her 

where Greyspine manor is? 

Keep, manor, whatever.

Adra: Ahh, well I can have him do it.

MATT: She pokes one of the barmaiders who turns around.

This one's younger, he looks like he's kind of 

frazzled and maybe new here 

or at least trying to make his way. He goes -

Barmaider: Okay, I can show you around, 

just follow me outside, come follow me.

MATT: And he walks up and he's got a little apron on 

and as he leads you guys outside, 

he brings you to the edge of the outer walkway 

of the central ring you're on. 

He points across the way and what you can see

is a series of marble pillars that outline what looks like 

a residential district that opens and 

consumes the other side of the central ring of Kraghammer. 

He says:

Barmaider: So if you go past far in that way, you'll look for the house

of Greyspine, it's the one that has dark black marble with gold

tinting inside the spiralling vein of the marble, it’s gold.

Grog: Nice.

Barmaider: The gate outside is wrought iron, black iron, that's

topped with a series of pikes and uh-

MATT: At which Pike awkwardly looks sickeningly, 

not understanding.

Barmaider: And, the real key point is, 

if you look on the front yard,

you'll see a dwarven statue of the current ironkeeper himself.

So that's where you'll want to go.

Scanlan: Yes, very helpful, young man.

Vex: Thank you so much.

Barmaider: Of course. And if you get the chance, 

you could fill out a little form saying how helpful I've been-

Keyleth: I will.

Scanlan: Oh, there's suggestion cards here.

Keyleth: Oh, absolutely.

Scanlan: I would love to.

Barmaider: Oh, ah, here.

MATT: And he pulls out a small parchment and hands it to you.

It's handwritten with a couple of checkboxes.

Tiberius: You should give us all a copy so you will have multiple.

Barmaider: I only have one.

Tiberius: Oh, okay, that's fine.

Barmaider: Sorry!

Scanlan: Confidence needs improvement.

Vex: Oh, it's okay, we have a wonderful writer. He can make copies.

Percy: I'll rustle up a few. That’s fine, why not, 

it's what I do apparently.

MATT: And he runs back into the tavern.

Vex: All right.

Scanlan: All right, shall we go to the manor?

TRAVIS: Yes.

Vex: Do we want to do the manor right now? What time is it?

Scanlan: 5 or 6.

TRAVIS: We gotta sleep.

Vex: We might not want to bug him when he's, 

you know, having dinner.

TRAVIS: Cause, let’s be honest, that gate is gonna jack us up. 

It’s gonna be full of trouble.

Scanlan: All right, yes, let's go sleep.

Grog: Let’s sleep.

Vex: Well, it's only 6.

Scanlan: Well, then we have time to do other things.

ORION: How long is a short rest?

MATT: Short rest is around 10 minutes or so.

ORION: I wanna take short rest.

MATT: You've technically been shortresting in the tavern. 

It's more of like a post battle - like, take a breather, 

bandage your wounds,

just settle yourself after a harrowing experience.

That’s what a short rest is.

ORION: What was the arcane magic, the manor?

MATT: Oh, what you're looking for is the house Thunderbrand.

ORION: I want to head in that direction.

MATT: Okay, so you're dividing from the party?

ORION: Mm hmm.

Tiberius: Oh, I'm going to house Thunderbrand, 

if anybody wants to come with me.

LAURA: What are you doing? 

I can't understand you with that popcorn in your mouth.

Tiberius: Sorry! I'm going to house Thunderbrand 

before turning in this evening.

I've had a nice little short rest and I would 

like to ask them a few questions.

Vex: All right.

TRAVIS: Yeah, go ahead, okay.

Scanlan: Is there any recon that's going to happen tonight?

Vex: I think that you and I are going to go to Greyspine?

Vax: We'll check out the house.

Scanlan: Do you need any help?

Vax: Sure, you can come with us.

Scanlan: No, I don't want you to say yes.

(all laugh)

Vex: Then no, we'll stealth our way.

Vax: But just a moment. Pike, you seem very distant.

(all laugh)

Vax: It's very strange, are you all right?

Vex: Pike’s not listening, she’s looking at the chatroom.

Vax: Pike, you seem distracted.

Scanlan: She’s feeling ill. Pike, does she need to lie down?

MATT: Pike is feeling, and for those of you who are curious

in the chat room, once again, elements of this are house ruled,

so don't complain.

LAURA: Oh, players.

MATT: We keep short rest to 10 minutes 

because it makes it move faster.

All right so - Pike, Pike is going along, 

she seems to be a little distracted,

She can't quite understand, she says:

Pike: I.. I don't know, I just... 

I feel like I've been here before. 

It's hard to explain.

TRAVIS: What?

Pike: Anyway, I'm probably going to go ahead and rest for the evening.

MATT: And she heads back to the tavern.

TRAVIS: The fuck does that mean?

SAM: We'll find out next week.

TRAVIS: But first...

TRAVIS: Whores in the bedroom!

SAM: (laughs)

LAURA: Lovely. Lovely.

Scanlan: Grog and I go in search of a, 

shall we say politely, 

whorehouse.

(all laugh)

MATT: The polite term.

LIAM: Well, the cleric's away, the bard shall play.

Grog: We need a massage.

On my crotch.

LAURA: You and I stealth.

LIAM: Yeah.

MATT: You guys make your way to the Greyspine Manor, 

you guys head for that, you head to Thunderbrand.

SAM: Is Grog going to find someone his size?

MATT: (laughs) I'll get to that.

Keyleth: Percy and I spend some time 

making some really nice comment cards.

Percy: Comment cards.

MATT: All right, awesome. Wonderful.

Percy: We're going to make some beautiful comment cards.

MARISHA: For - what's his name?

MATT: His name is Balan.

Everyone: Balan.

LAURA: He's adorable. I love Balan.

MARISHA: We're going to make some 

wonderful comment cards for Balan.

Vax: Oh, Percy is wonderful with calligraphy, 

you've shown me.

Percy: Yes, thank you.

MATT: Okay, so you'll get to that. 

You guys do manage to find what's called The Stone's Pillow.

TRAVIS: The Stone's Pillow?

MATT: The Stone's Pillow.

TRAVIS: I love it. 

LAURA: Ridiculous.

MATT: It's an establishment of comfort and ease, 

and will run you both for the evening, 

as you are not Kraghammer locals, 

30 gold for the night each.

LAURA: (shocked gasp)

Grog: A bargain.

Scanlan: We'll take it.

LAURA: 30 gold?!

MARISHA: Why is everything so much more expensive here?

ORION: Because it's dwarf-town, man.

SAM: But what sort of, ah, ladies, will we find there?

MATT: (laughs)

LAURA: Bearded ladies.

SAM: What species?

LIAM: (laughs)

MATT: The madam of the house introduces you to a spectrum of ladies,

mostly dwarven, and very attractive, you know. 

This is a nice establishment.

LIAM: Do you deal in tiefling?

SAM: They're not gnomes.

MATT: There is one gnome. One female gnome. 

There are a number of male dwarves as well, 

that are standing at the ready.

MATT: There is one elf, looks a little shy. 

And kind of embarrassed that a goliath walked in.

SAM: And that's our choice.

MATT: Those are your choices.

TRAVIS: I'll take the tallest one.

SAM: I'll take a dwarf.

MATT: (laughs) Okay.

MATT: So you choose your lady, you take the tallest one

which would probably be the elf.

As you walk in, the shy elf turns around entirely.

She is aggressive and throws you around. 

You got your money's worth.

MATT: You get manhandled in a way that you haven't -

You're gonna be sore in the morning.

TRAVIS (as Scanlan): Thank you!

MATT: Welcome to Kraghammer, gentlemen.

(all laugh)

TRAVIS: I like it already.

MATT: All right, you guys.

LAURA: Yes.

MATT: Both - are, are you just walking up to the manor, are you doing-

LIAM: No, no no.

LAURA: We're gonna try to check out what it looks like.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: See what the guards are like.

LIAM: Yeah, we'll pretend to take a stroll...

LAURA: Yes.

LIAM: Pose as a married couple.

LAURA: Ew, no.

LIAM: Just for the purposes of sneaking around the house.

MATT: I don't know if that's illegal in Kraghammer.

LAURA: (retching sound)

LIAM: I want to see what the area's like.

Vex: How about we pose as brother and sister, creepy?

(all laugh)

Vax: You come on to every human, orc, 

and half-elf in the entire kingdom,

but pretending to be my wife for 30 minutes is too much.

Vex: Yes. It's disgusting, so no.

Vax: You're probably right.

MATT: She's got standards.

LIAM: Okay. So we'll take a stroll.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: Shop, see what the area's like.

MATT: As you enter the residential district, 

it is dark and you see the 

redstone that permeates the area for a low gentle glow 

of the entire city is now clustered into 

these street lamps that are throughout the entire location. 

As you begin to press into the residential district proper, 

there's some nice homes that are carved 

into the side of the rock, there's some stand-alone homes that 

are built out of fine stone; 

you eventually make your way towards the nicer part of it, 

where you start seeing some of the more marble buildings, 

some of the more exotic stonework being used in the construction 

of the homes. 

You also notice three of the guards that are part of the 

city establishment there are following you 

from behind, curiously. 

The Carvers.

Vex: Oh shit, the Carvers. Shit.

MATT: No weapons drawn, but definitely hands at the ready.

Vex & Vax: Okay.

Vax: Well, we could just keep walking.

Vex: We could, but that could be bad.

Vax: Yes. No, we just want to look at the house.

SAM: Louder!

Vax: I mean we're not going to go sneaking in in the day.

Vex: Let's be very obvious about it...

SAM: Louder!

MATT: Louder into the mic.

Vex: Let's say which ones are very obvious about being pretty,

so we look like we're just sightseeing.

Vax: Yes.

MATT: (chuckles darkly) All right, so as you continue to walk,

eventually some of the dwarves approach, and one goes -

LAURA: I point and say:

Vex: Oh! Look at that one, with the carving, it's amazing!

Vax: The architecture is divine.

Vex: Divine!

SAM: (snorts) They're posing as the Howells?

(all laugh)

LIAM (heavy accent): Lovey, would you look at this dwarven home?

MATT (SAMe accent as LIAM): It's incredible.

(all laugh)

MATT (SAMe accent as LIAM): The marble texture on this is gorgeous.

MATT: So you get about 20 more feet before you get:

Guard: Hail! Hail!
				
Vex: Oh my! Yes? (giggles)

Guard: You foreigners are wandering too far 

in districts you don't belong to.

What's your business?

Vex: Oh I'm so sorry, I was just so amazed by the architecture here, 

I wanted to see the beautiful sculpture.

Vax: We definitely are visitors here, sir, 

no one has explained the rules to your city. 

We were just taking in the fantastic architecture,

and history of Kraghammer.

Vex: We were told there was a beautiful sculpture down the street,

of the ruler of Kraghammer?

MATT: Make a persuasion roll.

SAM: Oh Jesus.

TRAVIS: Oh god.

MATT: Either of you, whichever you prefer.

SAM: If only I were there.

LAURA: Twenty... one.

MATT: All right, all right.

TRAVIS: Wow! Pretty decent, good for you.

MATT: The guards come up to each other, 

the one that was talking to you,

you can see now, as he comes a little closer into the light,

a frazzled black beard that's pulled into a very, very tight braid 

that goes down to his belly button, 

all wearing the SAMe basic chest plate, 

long black kind-of velvet cloak behind, 

each carrying some sort of heavy war-hammer 

around the side of their belt, steps up and says:

Guard: Well, just to tell you the rules here, 

if you’re gonna go ahead and wander at night 

in a very expensive district, you don't wanna do it

by yourself, because you either have chances of being mugged,

or arrested, we might have arrested you.

Vex: Oh no! I'm so sorry! 

Well, do we need protection?

MATT: And one of them looks over and sees the bear 

that is off in the shadows nearby.

SAM: Oh god.

LAURA: (laughing) I thought Trinket stayed behind.

Cool, cool!

SAM: What is that bear doing here?

MATT: As Trinket's like quietly trying to keep up 

with his wonderful master.

Vax: Come along Trinket, there there's nothing to be scared of.

Vex: Oh yes, yes.

Guard: That's a bear! 

What's a bear doing in Kraghammer?!

Vex: Oh no he's...

MATT: They all grab out their warhammers.

Vex: Oh no, please, he's quite harmless. 

In fact, he's he's very scared of most people.

Vax: He's completely trained, he does tricks. 

Doesn't he do tricks?

Vex: He does. Trinket show them your wonderful shake trick.

MATT: At which point Trinket -

Trinket: (subdued growling)

MATT: Just shakes her whole body, looks at you confused.

Vex: That's good.

MATT: Then raises a paw up, and -

Trinket: (growling)

Vex: If you put your paw out, if you put your hand out, 

he'll shake your hand. 

Yeah, see!

SAM: I would not do that.

MATT: The dwarves take a step back as the claw goes through the -

Guard: That's all right. I would say if that's your animal - 

Vex: Yes?

Guard: Don't bring it here.

Vex: Oh, good to know good to know. 

Trinket, head back to that, tavern would you, 

people are getting nervous.

Trinket: (growling)

Vex: I love you.

MATT: Trinket begins to walk back you can see a couple of other dwarves

that are wandering carrying some packages to the side 

make a very wide berth around this armored bear 

that's slowly moping its way through the streets of Kraghammer. 

What could possibly go wrong?

Vex: He's so cute.

Vax: Don't worry, he's a sweetheart, he's fine.

Vex: He's adorable.

Trinket: (growls)

MATT: You hear in the distance.

Vex: Oh.

MATT: The one goes like -

Guard: (whispers): Look, I'll show you to the statue and 

that's it, then you gotta go.

Vex: (whispers): All right.

Guard: (whispers): All right

Vex: (whispers): Thank you.

Guard: (whispers): I don't see many half-elves here and honestly 

I'm excited to meet you so, 

I just, let’s do this quickly and...

Vex: (whispers): Yes, okay.

Guard: (whispers): Come with me.

MATT: And he leads you further into the cityscape down the road.

You end up going through a few buildings, 

you find one large wrought iron fence with 

a series of carved spikes towards the top, and you see

the beautiful dark marble building with the gold trim.

Vex: Oh, this one's amazing.

Guard: This is what you were talking about, Greyspine manor. 

Lot of rich sons of bitches.

(all laugh)

Vex: Wow, so you said the Greyspines own this one?

Guard: Aye.

Vax: It's stunning, we only heard about the building itself, 

what can you tell us about the people who live here?

Guard: Bunch of rich sons of bitches.

Vex: Well, we can tell that can't we?

Guard: Actually, actually Ironkeeper's all right, 

he's been doing a great job.

The rest of the family can suck off.

Vex: Oh, really?

Vax: Not liked by the rest of the city then?

Guard: Oh, they have friends everywhere, 

but I personally don't like them.

They run business pretty dark, they work most 

of their employees to the ground. To the bone.

Vex: Oh no.

Vax: Yeah that sounds terrible.

Guard: I don't think that's how you run a business. 

Well, that's how you run a business for profit but not for -

Vex: Wow. It sounds like they would run 

the mithral mine which we've heard is just, 

so hard on its employees.

Guard: Aye, that's the one.

Vex: Oh, really?

Guard: Yeah.

Guard: I don't know, I don't go that far south, 

doesn't interest me.

Vax: Nor us.

Guard: Smells like, brimstone.

Vex: I don't blame you.

Vax: We prefer the company of good hard working people, like yourself.

We're very impressed with the work the carvers do in this city,

from what little we've seen so far, so hats off to you.

Guard: I appreciate that.

Vex: Yes.

Guard: You know it's not easy like, you're kind of born into it. 

And we spend most of our time training, 

which can get very boring.

MATT: You see that two of the dwarves that are now 

about two steps behind go:

Guard 2: (clears throat) All right Tomsan! 

We gotta get back to our post!

Guard: Oh, sorry. Look we've dillied about too much, 

just follow us back,

go about your business, don't wander here at night, 

and uh, good luck.

Vex: Thank you so much.

Vax: Thank you.

LIAM: We follow for a couple of blocks, behind them for a bit.

LAURA: Make sure that they're paying attention to us.

MATT: Mmm hmm.

LIAM: Yes.

MATT: All right. They bring you back towards the 

entrance of the central district.

LAURA: And then we stealth and -

LIAM: - split off, yes, we can split off.

MATT: All right, roll stealth, both of you guys.

LIAM: All right!

SAM: Am I currently being beaten by a whore dwarf or anything?

(all laugh)

MATT: Make a constitution check!

SAM: Constitution check?

TRAVIS: Hang strong, buddy!

ORION: That's a mouthful. 'Whore dwarf.'

MARISHA: 'Whore dwarf.'

ORION: #whoredwarf.

SAM: Eighteen!

MATT: Plus your constitution modifier. 

Actually, athletics! Go athletics!

SAM: ... plus two! Twenty.

MATT: All right, that's fine. 

You have impressed your female dwarf.

By the middle of hour two -

LIAM: Are you making a sex check?

SAM: Yes! I’m sex checking. 

Taliesin: Whore dwarf!

MATT: That happened. That's the first time.

SAM: (grunting)

LAURA: This is so uncomfortable.

MATT: That happened. 

All right, so what'd you guys roll for stealth?

LIAM: Twenty.

LAURA: He rolled a twenty, I rolled a fifteen.

TRAVIS: That's okay!

MATT: As you guys begin to wander off, Vax, you vanish. 

Vex, you take a couple steps -

Guard: ‘Ey ey ey! I told you, it's dangerous down there, in the dark! 

Don't do that!

Vex: Of course!

Guard: Where's yer friend?

Vex: Oh, he already went back to the tavern we're staying at.

I was wondering if maybe you could show me around 

the rest of the town?

MATT: He looks to the other guards and 

they’re obviously fed up with his flirting, 

and they're not too keen on you guys.

Guard: Well, you guys hold up post, 

I’ll give her a quick walk around.

Vax: Thank you, sir.

Guard 2: All right, but I'm gonna tell the boss!

Guard: Fine! I don't get this chance very often!

LIAM: I wave off from the alley that I snuck in to.

Vex: Yeah, yeah, go do your shit.

Vax: You do your shit, that you do!

MATT: All right. In the meantime, Tiberius.

Vax: Then I go back, to the shadows.

LAURA: Dammit!

MATT: You ask around, and it takes a while, 

especially since as a dragonborn some folks are like, 

“Oh, I'm not talking to you!" 

Some others are like, "Oh, yeah, right over that way!” 

And it's a completely wrong direction, so it takes you 

a good two hours to eventually find your way to House Thunderbrand. 

When you get there, it's a beautiful, 

beautiful alabaster building. 

Large, white dome, with small spires 

built in to one of the more elevated 

ceilings of Kraghammer proper. 

You can see on the outside, 

there is no gate, just an open lawn. 

You see grass, you see what looks 

like normally outside flora and fauna currently 

adorning the scape around this structure.

Tiberius: Woah. Well, this is a lovely sight!

ORION: I'm gonna saunter on up to the door!

MATT: Nice! Go ahead and make a perception check.

ORION: Where is my perception...? Oh. Five.

MATT: Five? You saunter right up to the edge of the grass line,

and get one step on what suddenly becomes visible to you.

A rather subtly carved dwarven rune in the ground.

In fact, there's a bunch of them, 

outlining the entirety of the grass.

MATT: As your foot hits the rune, you're like:

MATT (as Tiberius): Oh, that's a dwarven rune!

(stomp noise)

SAM: That's a good voice!

(all laugh)

MATT: (as Tiberius) I've been practicing my Tiberius.

ORION: It's close.

MATT: (laughs) Go ahead and roll a dexterity saving throw.

TRAVIS: Uh-oh. Saving throw?

LAURA: You got it, you got it, you got it, Tiberius!

ORION: Wha-um, what is this?

MARISHA: Dexterity.

ORION: Oh! That's a fifteen.

MATT: Fifteen?

ORION: Mmm hmm.

MATT: All right! You manage to pull back to lessen the impact,

but a bolt of bluish energy bursts out 

from the rune in front of you,

throwing you about three or four feet behind the rune. 

You catch yourself.

You do suffer eight points of thunder damage.

ORION: Okay.

MARISHA: Damn gated communities.

(MATT, LAURA, and TRAVIS chuckle)

SAM: This is why we go to brothels 

instead of sneaking around at night!

TRAVIS: Yup! No lightning attacks!

MATT: It's a whole different kind of damage you can suffer!

ORION: Okay. Well I dust myself off. 

Tiberius: Apparently, there’s some security.

Hello?!

ORION: Anything happen?

MATT: You wait about two or three minutes, no response.

ORION: 'Two to three minutes'? That's a long time.

MATT: Yeah.

MARISHA: I have a feeling they're not gonna respond to the crazy guy.

Tiberius: Very well.

TRAVIS: What're you two doing?

Percy and Keyleth: We're making comment cards! Yes!

Percy: You're all going to have comment cards 

that you are expected to fill out when you return back to the bar!

SAM: Hugely important! Hugely important!

MARISHA: Yes, 'cause - what was it? Baldus, Beldus?

SAM: Balgus?

TRAVIS: Ballsack!

MARISHA: Balan! Balan was so nice!

MATT: There we go. Balgus and Balan.

ORION: Do I see - what do I see around the place? 

Do I see any large rocks, or any large pillars that I can...?

MATT: Best from what you can tell at this distance 

because it's fairly dark down here. 

You can see that the building itself just has 

four corner spires around the large central dome structure. 

Each one of these spires is a very very thin, 

tall alabaster spire that at the very top 

is crested with some sort of bluish crystal that comes to a point. 

They're probably a good 35, 40 feet tall. 

About as tall as the rest of the structure is. 

ORION: Okay.

MATT: You can't really tell how far back the structure goes because, 

again it meets with the back of the cave wall.

ORION: I'm going to… okay. I'm gonna shoot a fireball. 

Just… right in front of me kind of like… 

roll it like a bowling ball. 

Just right to the door.

MATT: Okay.

ORION: There is a baby right there. 

MATT: You are 4 feet from the door. 

ORION: Oh! I'm 4 feet from the door?

ORION: I don't do that. I don't do that.

(laughter)

MATT: You can step back and do it.

ORION: I'm only 4 feet from the door? Oh.

MATT: Like, it pushed you back 4 feet 

from the rune you stepped on. 

You're not at the door. 

LAURA: Can I use that magical earring that we have? 

LIAM: You don't know what's going on! 

You don't know what's going on there!

SAM: Episode one. Tiberius kills himself. 

(all laugh)

MARISHA: Don’t die! Don’t die.

MARISHA: I should have come with you! And then I could...

TRAVIS: Bowl that fireball, dude!

MARISHA: You can't be left alone, dammit!

MATT: Everyone is level 9 currently in the game.

ORION: I use… mage hand. And I knock on the door.

MATT: From that far away? Okay, the mage hand creates -

the arcane energy swirls up and forms this, 

loosely hand-like appendage that drifts foward. 

As soon as it crosses over the rune where you stepped on, 

there is a spark of energy and the hand is dispelled. 

Tiberius: Damn these runes. Okay, fine. 

I will do glacial blast right up to the door. 

MATT: Okay.

ORION: But not to the door.

MARISHA: What?

SAM: You’re alone.

MATT: Okay. So as you cast the glacial blast forward 

the ice begins to congeal across the bottom of the floor. 

As it reaches the front of the rune, 

there is another spark of energy 

and the ice forms up against an invisible barrier 

that's there and then the ice that's up against the barrier 

melts extremely quickly, drifting into a puddle of water. 

ORION: Shit. I turn back and head to the group.

MATT: Okay. As you turn around there are four Carvers 

that are hurrying towards you now, 

with their hammers out, going:

Carver: “You! YOU!”

Tiberius: What? 

MATT: They all surround you on all sides, 

you have a dwarf on each corner.

Carver: You have attacked one of the great 

Dwarven families of Kraghammer!

Name yourself and your business before you are under arrest.

Tiberius: Don't speak to me in that manner, 

I am Tiberius Stormwind!

SAM: I am snoring after having sex. 

(all laugh)

MATT: Make intimidation check. 

ORION: 18. 

LAURA: (gasps)

MATT:. All four Carvers take a step back, look at each other.

Carver: Look, we're just doing our job. What's your business?

Tiberius: I understand that, and I am sorry for losing my temper. 

But I was just looking to ask questions of particular artifacts 

I have been looking for and this house is the only known 

arcane house I know that I was pointed to. 

I tried to reach them and communicate but I was stopped

by the stupid rune I can't figure out! 

So I was turning back to get my tavern to 

get some rest and, you know, come back and try to contact

the family the next day! And then I was stopped by you!

MATT: Make a persuasion check.

ORION: 24.

LIAM: I've just arrived to New York City, 

I'm going to smash the doors open -

(all laugh)

MATT: The dwarf guards look at each other and he goes - 

one of them steps forward and this guy you can see now

he has more carvings in his armor, 

he looks to have a little more rank than the other ones. 

He steps forward, ruddy brown beard, his eyes itself 

are pitch black. There is almost no color to the irises.

And he goes:

Carver 2: Look. I'm letting you off this once. 

But if you so much as spit in the direction 

of any other dwarf in the city, 

we're going to bury you so far underneath the dungeon 

you won't see the light of day 'til the day you rot, 

you hear me, Dragonborn?

Tiberius: I mean yes, my hearing is perfectly fine. 

(all laugh)

MATT: Kind of like, “Get on with you,” 

he puts his hammer back at his side, 

they all separate, stare you down as you walk past. 

Tiberius: Good day. 

(all laugh)

ORION: Back to the tavern. 

MATT: Okay. You!

LIAM: Yes?

MATT: You go ahead and make your way through the alleyways, 

eventually back towards the building proper. 

What would you like to do? 

LIAM: Just gonna watch, that's all. 

Do I see any security details? 

See who's guarding the place.

LAURA: (whispering) Your perception is shit, how are you going to…?

MATT: There are Carvers doing rounds around the city. 

On the streets just wandering through in pairs, keeping watch. 

You don't see any particular guard outside, 

but you do see individuals moving past windows. 

There's a little bit of light from the inside of the buildings. 

LIAM: No Carvers or any sort of guard detail outside the house? 

Anything like that?

MATT: Not through the gates. The yard area and to the front door. 

LIAM: Okay. But heavily heavily guarded by the looks of 

what's inside and what's outside the gate?

MATT: What's outside the gate? You're hard pressed 

to find a moment where the street isn't visible to some Carver. 

This area is pretty well guarded.

You figure largely because the person who is 

currently the Ironkeeper of the entire city of Kraghammer l

ives with that building as well as 

one of the more powerful dwarven families, 

so it's pretty well watched.

Vax: Okay, I'm just going to head back to the inn then.

MATT: Okay.

Vax: I'm not going to poke the bear.

MATT: You all eventually gather back at the tavern.

Scanlan: (exhausted sigh) How was your night?

Grog: That was wonderful, I don't know about you!

Scanlan: (singsong) I have hickies.

(all laugh)

LIAM: Hickies? is that a Gnomish STD?

SAM: Yes.

Vex: Crazy! I have some hickies too, actually.

Vex: What?

Scanlan: What?

Percy: And we have comment cards 

so this will all work out well.

Keyleth: Yes! here! Here you go, here you go...

Scanlan: Success all around! 

Did you learn anything Vex and Vax?

Vax: I definitely think we should take the, er, diplomacy route. 

The place is heavily guarded. 

There seem to be lots of Carvers.

MATT: (knocks on the table) 

There's a knock at the room that you guys 

are currently talking in.

Vex: Yes.

MATT: Unless, are you in the tavern proper 

or have you gone back to - ?

LAURA: No no, we're in a room.

Scanlan: I'll get it!

(clears throat) Hello?

MATT: Adra's standing there looking a little nervous and she goes:

Adra: Hi, sorry to bother you. Is that… bear one of yours?

Scanlan: Oh!

Vex: Yes! Trinket! Isn't he adorable?

Adra: You might want to go -

MATT: And you hear in the tavern:

Trinket: (aggravated growls)

Vex: I'll be right back. I head downstairs.

MATT: You head downstairs and you can see 

all the dwarves are now gathered around the fighting ring 

in the center of the tavern.

LAURA: Oh no!

MATT: And Trinket’s now inside the ring

with a couple other dwarves around, 

just prodding and pushing it into the ring.

Vex: No-no, no, no, NO.

TRAVIS: (laughs)

MARISHA: Oh my god.

MATT: There’s raucous cheering.

They're not even listening to you at this point.

Vex: (Grunts in frustration) GROG!

Vax: I followed my sister downstairs.

Grog: I come down too. (singsong) It’s party time!

Keyleth: I run down to with Grog.

Percy: Oh, I'm following down.

MATT: Okay, as you guys head down you can see now, 

Balgus is now up and rubbing his chin.

Balgus: Oh, never fought a bear before! (laughs)

Vex: No no, Balgus! Balgus! Fuck! Trinket, come here!

LAURA: Are we allowed to cuss?

Vex: Trinket, come here!

MATT: You are very much allowed to cuss.

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: Isn't that right guys? Fuck yeah!

MARISHA: (laughs)

Vex: No no, no no, and I run into the ring with him.

MATT: Okay, as you run into the ring 

a couple of the dwarves pat you on the back, 

you get a shove into the ring.

Vex: (grunts)

MATT: It’s now Trinket and you...

Vex: Oh! I'll take on this bear!

(all laugh)

SAM: What?

Taliesin: Well, all right!

MATT: Make a general charisma check.

TRAVIS: (laughing) Do it! Fuck that bear up!

Vax: I'm pushing my way through the crowd.

LAURA: Oh no! Oh no.

MATT: What did you roll?

LIAM: A one.

(all laugh)

MARISHA: Oh no!

MATT: Yes!

LIAM: First one of the series everybody! First one!

MATT: So, as you rush and you guys 

are coming to the front you see - 

Balgus sees this and now you can see both eyes are open 

which means he's sobered up a bit, and he goes:

Balgus: Oh no! This bear's mine. 

You wanna fight two of us? 

Oh, it'll wake ya right up!

Vex: Let’s do it!

Balgus: Nothing as invigorating as as a brawl!

SAM: Are you going to fucking fight him?

Keyleth: I cast a fog. Over the ring.

MATT: Okay. As everyone is cheering up and getting ready

This very thick fog begins to fill the center of the bar area.

You can now see a bunch of people are:

Bar Patron: Wait, what the...? 

(cough)

Bar Patron: What the hell's goin' on? 

Fuckin' 'ell why - why is there...

Keyleth: Okay, I run up in the fog, and I tap Trinket 

and I whisper in Trinket's ear and I say: 

“Trinket, I'm tapping you out.” 

And I turn into a bear like Trinket!

SAM: What?!

TRAVIS: Good!

MATT: Okay.

Keyleth: And I - wait, wait. 

First I polymorph Trinket into a squirrel.

LAURA: (gasp) You can do that?

MARISHA: I can.

MATT: All right.

Orrion: Oh, you can do polymorph?

Keyleth: No no no no, a mouse, like a rat.

LAURA: Little tiny -

MATT: Okay. So you see the shadows nearby the fog you hear:

Balgus: Come at me, I’m gonna - (slaps table)

MATT: You can see Balgus' shadow 

just swinging wildly at the air, angrily.

SAM: We gonna fight him?

LAURA: I don't know!

MATT: You go ahead, you grab Trinket. Trinket shrinks down 

into a tiny little mouse.

Keyleth: I say, “Scanlan, Scanlan! Catch Trinket!”

Scanlan: Jesus I don't like rats but I'll keep it. Okay.

MATT: Trinket, the little mouse face, 

the moment you see it, 

looks very confused, very scared.

Scanlan: Its okay, its okay. I'll protect it. 

Don't worry.

Keyleth: And then I bear form up.

MATT: You (whoosh) into a bear form. 

Now Keyleth is now this giant bear where Trinket once was.

Grog: I got my money on Ballsack!

(all laugh)

Scanlan: Don't bet against the enemy!

Vax: In the fog I somersault over some 

random dwarf and pull out my dagger, 

but turn it around in my hand and 

whack Balgus in the back of the head 

as hard as I can, just to try and knock him out.

SAM: Oh shit!

LAURA: Can you see in fog?

SAM: He's a really good fighter.

LIAM: Low light.

MATT: Go ahead and make a stealth check.

LAURA: What?!

MATT: You have advantage because you are in fog.

ORION: I'm at the balcony by the way. 

Watching all this.

LAURA: You have advantage, you have advantage, roll twice.

LIAM (partially sung): Oh, thank you.

TRAVIS: Yeah, we're watching what they're doing.

Scanlan: Remember, he's our friend. We don't want to kill him.

ORION: I'm taking a short rest. 

I'm taking a short rest, you all can do this.

LIAM: 21.

MATT: Okay. Balgus's drunken, mist covered state does not seem 

to notice your approach. He is swinging wildly though. 

He has a disadvantage attack on you as you approach.

TRAVIS: He's rolling. 

You're fucked, he's rolling.

MATT: One of his fists just swings past you. 

That is going to be a twelve, 

I don't think that hits.

LIAM: No.

MATT: You just - (whoosh) - narrowly dodge out of the way. 

You can feel the fist just whoosh past one of your ears.

LAURA: Like in the Matrix!

MATT: As you come back up, clutching the base of your dagger, 

go ahead and go for your strike.

LAURA: Oh my gosh!

TRAVIS: Come on taint putter, you got it.

LIAM: So, oh, that's no good.

LAURA: (whispered to LIAM) Roll twice. 

(loudly to MATT) Does he have advantage still?

LIAM: Oh, I have advantage on the attack roll for this?

MATT: Because he does not see you, yes.

LIAM: Yes. Oh, thank Christ.

MATT: You are currently stealthed.

LAURA: Much better!

LIAM: That's much better. 26!

TRAVIS: That'll work. (laughs)

Taliesin: That'll hit. 

MATT: So go ahead and roll sneak attack damage on this, of course.

LIAM: Plus regular?

MATT: Yeah.

Scanlan: Don't kill him!

MATT: Well, we're considering it nonlethal damage 

because it's with the base of the dagger.

LAURA: Bonk, it's blunt!

ORION: I'm having an ale while watching all this.

MATT: (to ORION) You're watching a lot of fog, 

with some shapes moving in it.

ORION: Yeah, and I'm like, "This is fog!" 

Probably Keyleth's spell.

LAURA: I'm blindly looking for Trinket.

Scanlan: Trinket's in my hands.

MATT: You're like, "Where's - where's Trinket?" 

And you see a giant bear there 

and you're like, "There's Trinket! 

That's not Trinket. There's no armor.”

MARISHA: Oh, that's right.

LAURA: (reacting to MATT): Oh, yeah! 

And I hug… oh no… what's happening?

MATT: You're very confused. Trinket now has no armor, 

is a slightly different shade -

MARISHA: No, he's close enough! Man, come on, 

I've been around Trinket enough.

ORION (imitating MARISHA): Come on man!

MARISHA (laughing): Come on man!

LIAM: 27, right in the base of his skull.

SAM: Jesus.

MATT: All right. Crack! A resounding impact hits 

and there now dwarves that are like:

Dwarves: (enthusiastically) Yeah! 

(shocked) Ooooh!

(all laugh)

MATT: All the cheering stops and there's this lull. 

Quiet hits. 

Balgus hasn't moved, by the way. 

You impact and it's like hitting a wall. 

And there's this taught, thick stump of muscle 

where the dwarf neck is.

LIAM: No. Fuck!

MATT: And as you pull back the dagger, his hand reaches up

and grabs your wrist.

LAURA: Shit, oh my god!

TRAVIS: Oh shit!

MATT: His head slowly turns towards you and he goes:

Balgus: (laughs)

(all laugh)

LIAM: Bonus action to disengage.

LAURA: Oh no!

LIAM: Disengage as a rogue.

MATT: Well he's going to attempt to grapple you.

LAURA and LIAM: Oh no.

SAM: Fuck.

MATT: Go ahead and make either an acrobatics check.

Go ahead and make an acrobatics check, 

it's probably your best score anyway.

LIAM: All right, all right, all right. 

Oh, that's fine! That's a 30.

MATT: That's a 30?

LIAM: Yeah.

MATT: You manage to just slip out of his grip.

Tavis: You lucky...

MATT: Barely. He was about to clamp on. 

As you step away, he turns towards you and goes:

Balgus: Oh, well I feel alive tonight! 

Bring it, all of ya! 

I wanna smash a face in.

MATT: He's got a little bit of ale froth 

at the corner of his mouth. 

It's beginning to drip into his beard. 

It's quite an awful sight for those that are close enough to see it. 

The rest of you just see this, shapes and movement.

But there's still this, "O-o-okay, what's going on?" kind of a feel. 

You hear Adra in the back going:

Adra: Stop this! This is... I can't even see! 

What are you doing?! 

Don't destroy another table!

MATT: She's frantically trying to stop this chaos. 

There's now a bear… 

what are you doing Keyleth?

MARISHA: I'm a bear… a-a-a-and...

MATT: You're a bear...

(all laugh)

ORION (imitating MARISHA): I'm a bear.

MARISHA: Um… what happened?

MATT: You're a bear, you want to do anything?

LAURA: What are you doing?

MATT: You see the shape of Balgus just like - 

- in the middle of this fight ring.

LAURA: Do, do some tricks! Do some tricks! 

Start clapping and, like, dancing around.

MARISHA: Okay, okay, that's a good idea.

MATT: This is what she tells you.

MARISHA: I go...I go... I see her as my trainer.

LAURA (whispering): Dance, dance, dance, dance, dance.

MARISHA: And I'm like - (bear sounds) - I'm circus bear-ing. 

(bear sounds)

Vex: Everyone! Gather round and watch 

the amazing Trinket do his tricks!

LIAM: Scanlan, let's get some music.

SAM: I start playing music from my shaum instrument. 

Which exists.

MATT (laughing): Yeah, it does.

SAM: A rousing jaunty bear-like tune.

LAURA: Yes!

MATT: All right.

ORION: And I'm going to cast prestidigitation 

and do fireworks on top of that.

LAURA: Yes!

MARISHA: You should give me a fez! 

Can you prestidigitation me a fez?

ORION: Can I do little hats?

MATT: You haven't done a fez yet. You need to work on that. 

A couple more levels.

Tiberius: Uh, no. I'll try… paper hat!

Taliesin: Keep dancing, I don't know why you stopped dancing.

MATT: So have you ever seen fireworks go off in a cloud? 

You get that little boof, boof. 

Yeah there's a bunch of that above you. 

Cloud, lights flashing.

Vex: How do we clear the fog?

LAURA: It's just there.

MARISHA: Oh, I, I'll let the cloud… fade.

MATT: You begin singing your tune. 

Do you give an inspiration dice to her?

SAM: Sure, I would love to give her an inspiration dice.

LAURA: So the fog fades...

MATT: So a d8 inspiration dice from the bard 

as you hear the enchanting, jaunty, bear dancing theme.

Scanlan (singing): Oh look over there! It's a bear! Yeah!

(all laugh)

MARISHA: (bear sounds)

MATT: Bard getting his bard on. 

Go ahead and make a performance check.

SAM: Who, me?

MATT: No, she does.

MARISHA: Oh, no! It's not a thing that I'm good at.

LAURA: A performance check!

SAM: What?!

MATT: You're performing as a bear!

Taliesin and MARISHA: (loudly cheer)

MARISHA: Natural 20!

(cheering)

MATT: Do you want to add performance dice?

LIAM: Look at that, a fucking bear dance.

MATT: I mean, I'm sorry, the inspiration dice that he gave you.

SAM: No! It's a natural 20!

MARISHA: It's a natural 20!

MATT: I know, but you could get more. Okay!

MARISHA: No I want to save it! I'm inspired, for later. 

I will think back to that moment.

MATT: You were so inspired, you weren't even 

inspired to be inspired for this.

MARISHA: Yeah. (sings a circus song)

MATT: All right, so. 

This array of strange puffy fireworks in the fog; 

you doing this little rotation. 

You actually manage to do a bear cartwheel, 

and slam into the ring, 

but it looks pretty cool.

Vex: Amazing, amazing!

MARISHA: (bear sounds)

MATT: You get back up. You're on your hind legs, 

you dance on one foot for a second. 

At which point Balgus is like:

Balgus: (small laugh)

(raucous laughter)

MATT: And just starts laughing, doubles over, 

clutching his stomach, 

laughing his ass off. 

Other dwarves start laughing too. 

The music just gets louder and the band in the back 

of the tavern begins playing again. 

There’s now this general jovial air restored to the tavern. 

Vex: I grab an empty cup off of the table and say, 

“Tips for the bear, right here!” 

Scanlan: (laughs) We’re gonna get money for this?

Grog: Of course.

Keyleth: (Imitates a bear) 

Vax: I beeline to the bar and say, “A large mug of ale, please,” 

and as soon as it’s ready, bring it right over to Balgus. 

LAURA: Bal… gus. 

MATT: All right, you guys are pulling through a crowd, 

covered in mist still.

You’re having a hard time finding your way through the bar. 

The people are at least now cheering, in the mood. 

There’s still some people trying to find their way 

to the front to see what’s going because 

they hear the music and they hear the cheering.

Dwarf patron: Well, what’s going on over there?

MATT: They’re pushing their way through. 

You make your way to the bar. 

You see Adra’s just like really nervous, like:

Adra: (panicked sounds)

Vax: I can fix this! I can fix this. 

Adra: How? Do! Go!

Vax: Quickly? 

Adra: Here, go!

MATT: She just hands you one, doesn’t even charge you for it. 

MARISHA and LAURA: (laughs)

Keyleth: I’m still dancing! (roars)

MATT: Still dancing. 

Vax: Looking for Balgus in the crowd. 

MATT: He’s still in the center of the ring. 

No one’s still getting near Balgus, 

he’s just jeering off to the side.

Vax: I’m gonna smooth this over.

MATT: All right, so Balgus is laughing.

Balgus: Ha ha, growl for me! Do a happy growl! 

(pretends to growl)

Keyleth: (forces a growl)

Balgus: Yeah, there’s a happy growl! 

(laughter)

Keyleth: (continues to growl)

Balgus: Oh, it’s been so long since I’ve been outside!

(all laugh)

MATT: A little tear on the edge of his face. 

As you approach up his side - 

Vax: Arm around his shoulder.

MATT: Immediately, instinctively, he just slaps it off his arm 

and turns around.

Vax: Take this, take this! 

You are an impressive specimen, my good man. 

I have never had a fight that amazing in at least a week. 

That was something to see. 

Here, take this, and after this one there’s three more.

MATT: He’s drunk. 

You’re offering him ale.

And he’s just been laughing at a bear for two minutes.

LIAM: Yes.

MATT: Make a persuasion roll with advantage.

LIAM: Yeah! Persuasion, you say?

15.

SAM: Two rolls! Two rolls.

MATT: Two rolls, yeah, you have advantage. 

LIAM: Oh! 15.

(all laugh)

MATT: 15! He looks at you with this big grin, 

and you can now see his gnarled, yellow dwarven teeth. 

This railroad of terror that his mouth is. 

This big smile. 

TRAVIS: (laughs) 

MATT: And he reaches out, his beard just poofing over the side, 

grabs it and goes - 

Balgus: See, now this is dwarven hospitality!

MATT: And he lifts his drink up and it spills 

a little bit on his arm. And he’s like:

Balgus: Hey!

MATT: And everyone lifts up and cheers again. 

All: (hearty cheer) 

MATT: Everyone still keeps drinking through the fog. 

It’s like a bad sauna in here right now. 

Everyone’s just fighting their way through. 

At which point now, Balgus slaps you on the shoulder, 

takes a drink, and wanders out of the fight ring, 

goes and finds a table to sit down 

and begin chugging what you gave him.

Scanlan: Why don’t we adjourn for the evening? 

Retire to our rooms? 

Grog: Why don’t you go change out of bear form? 

Percy: Oh, God, yes.

Vex: Change your bear form.

Keyleth: Yeah, and I guess I can let Trinket 

change out of mouse form.

Scanlan: Why don’t you wait until we’re upstairs.

LAURA: Can I take the mouse? Can I take the mouse? 

Can I take Trinket?

Scanlan: Here, rat-mouse-thing.

LAURA: Okay, hi, Trinket! 

Oh, is his armor teeny tiny too?

MARISHA: Oh, does he have a tiny armor mouse? Mouse armor!

MATT: If you choose, while polymorphing him, 

you could make it as a visual aesthetic. 

But because it was a quick impact, 

I would just say it looks like a normal mouse right now.

LAURA: Oh, wah.

MATT: Sorry. But next time!

MARISHA: Next time I’ll give him tiny mouse armor.

Vex: Well you’re still adorable little - don’t poke him.

MATT: (laughs)

Trinket: (squeaks) 

Vex: I stick him in my little pocket.

MATT: All right. 

Vax: I grab a half a mug of ale just off the table and say, 

"Dwarven compatriots, we could not have expected 

a better welcome here in Kraghammer! 

We’ll see you tomorrow night for round two. 

Thank you, one and all."

Everyone: Huzzah!

Dwarven patrons: (cheers)

MATT: Balgus goes - 

Balgus: Three more! You said three more! 

MATT: You see his empty cup on the table.

TRAVIS: We did say three more.

Vex: I laugh and hustle her over and say, 

“One two three, put them in a row 

for this gentleman right here.” 

Adra: Aye! (whispers) Ah, thanks. 

MATT: She gives you like a really earnest like, "Thank you." 

You now have a very good idea of how a good third 

of the tables in this tavern are repaired. 

TRAVIS: He’s tough.

MATT: All right, you guys head back up to the rooms. 

TRAVIS: You put some stank on him. 

MATT: Yeah, that was like a - 

when you got the impact on him.

Vex: Oh my gosh. Don’t fight him, you guys.

Scanlan: He’s good. 

Grog: Yeah, leave that to me.

Vex: Don’t fight him.

Scanlan: Oh, Grog’s gonna fight him at some point.

MATT: (laughs) I get the feeling that’s probably 

gonna go down at some point. 

Vex: Yeah, it’s gonna be bad. 

Grog: He’s gonna be playmates with me. 

Vax: It’s just a misunderstanding. 

I’m sure he’s a lovely gentleman. 

MATT: So you guys are heading back up to the room. 

Which, it’s not a hallway built for a bear. 

Your shoulders are squeezing through.

LAURA: How big is the room?

MATT: Well, each one of your rooms 

comfortably fits two people, maybe. 

Like, one and a half? 

LAURA: Oh, no… what will I do with Trinket?

MATT: So I mean, Trinket...if you help 

push Trinket through the door. 

Trinket - thankfully, dwarves are fairly wide folk, 

so the doors are built for stouter folk, 

they’re just not very tall.

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: You, actually, have to bend through, Grog, 

to get into your room. 

Grog: Son of a bitch.

MATT: And the bed, on the bed that you lie on, 

your legs dangle a good two feet off the bottom, at maximum. 

But you can push Trinket through with a one, two, three! 

Or you can just carry her through as a mouse, 

and then have her stuck in there.

MARISHA: Yeah.

Vax: That’s all right. Neither of us need a blanket now. 

LAURA: Well...

MARISHA: How long can I keep her a mouse?

LAURA: Him! Trinket's a boy, all of you, please.

MARISHA: Him a mouse. Sorry.

MATT: Up to an hour.

MARISHA: Up to an hour?

MATT: I believe it is, yeah, concentration.

TRAVIS: I mean, are there like stables?

LAURA: You know, yeah. Can I go downstairs 

and ask about stables?

Maybe he can stay in the stables.

MATT: You have to talk to Adra. She's like:

Adra: There's no stables in this establishment, 

but we do have a downstairs storage area 

your bear can probably stay in.

TRAVIS: Yeah, he's a bear, he's fine.

Vex: Trinket, is that okay?

TRAVIS: (as Trinket) Yeah, I'm fine.

MATT: Little mouse (meep, meep, meep)

Vex: All right, yeah, he's seems to think it's all right. 

Let's go with the storage room.

TRAVIS, pretending Trinket: (muted roar) I don't give a shit.

Vex: If there's anything that looks edible, you can eat it. 

It's fine.

Adra: That's not true.

Vex: Just kidding!

Adra: I'll charge you later.

MATT: So you bring Trinket back down. 

Do you release your polymorph?

MARISHA: Yeah.

MATT: (transformation noise) Trinket becomes a bear again. 

I'd say the room's probably a good 40 feet by 30 feet.

LAURA: Oh, so he's fine.

MATT: Half of it's filled with barrels and crates, 

and storage of dried foods. 

Trinket comes in and (sniffs) and starts rummaging 

into one of the half open sacks of dried meat. 

That's going to be put on your bill.

LAURA: Shit.

MATT: All right, so you head back to your rooms 

for the evening to rest.

MARISHA: Take a nap.

MATT: Anything you guys want to do in preparation for the next day?

SAM: No, let's get it on.

Keyleth: Oh, we should give our comment cards to Balgus.

Percy: I think we should all turn in our comment cards.

Vex: Oh, our comments cards, that's right.

MATT: You turn in your comment cards for Balan.

MARISHA: Balan.

Percy: I can't stress how important this is.

Vax: Maybe we should... go ahead, I'm sorry.

Percy: No, no, really, no it's fine, speak over me, I don’t care.

Keyleth: Here, take him the extras.

Percy: We're going to give him a few extras 

so he can have more comments.

Keyleth: Yes.

Scanlan: You guys are so kind with these comment cards.

LIAM: Perhaps we should all go to bed, 

and the humans back in North Hollywood 

should take a pee break. At some point.

SAM: The humans?

LIAM: You. And you, and you and you and you and me.

MATT: Yes, indeed. Do you want to take a quick 

restroom break for the folks here?

SAM: You okay?

MATT: Zac?

Zac: (off screen) What's that?

MATT: Folks here might want to use the restroom real fast.

Zac: (off screen) You want me to play the intro videos again?

MATT: You know what, go ahead and play some of the intro videos 

and we'll come back here in a minute to continue the game, 

while everyone rests, and empties their bladders. 

We'll be right back guys. Hang tight.

SAM: Commercial break.

Grog: Right, Listen up! If you have ale, 

then you have a friend in Grog Strongjaw!

A goliath of towering height and size, 

this barbarian has an appetite for the two great

loves in his life: combat, women, and ale! (chuckle)

(record scratch)

Wait.

Easily the brains of the group, 

Grog is often consulted for his vast knowledge

of shapes, colors, and (chuckle) shiny things!

...also ale.

In his early years, armed with his two handed great axe, 

Grog often enjoyed proving his might amongst the ranks 

of his family's wandering herd. 

But after coming upon an unsuspecting elderly gnome in the woods, 

he objected to the killing such an innocent life.

A creature of impulse, Grog felt only pity for this... 

well this terrified little thing. 

And his disobedience cost him dearly.

(weapon crack)

Beaten bloody, and banished by the herd leader, 

his uncle Kevdak,

Grog was abandoned and left to die.

Exiled from his herd, it was then that 

the relative of the very gnome he fought to save, 

saved him. 

It was the kindness of a gnome cleric named Pike, 

that healed Grog, bringing him back from death's edge. 

And they have remained close friends ever since. 

(brawling sounds)

Most nights, Grog can be found challenging 

entire taverns to wrestling matches! Ha! 

...or accompanying Scanlan to the nearest house, 

where you pay for... 

lady favors. 

Also ale!

Keyleth: A first Impression of Keyleth would 

leave you with little information

on the half-elven druid. 

You might even think that her social awkwardness

due to her sheltered upbringing is kinda sweet. 

(chuckle)

Of course, it would be unwise underestimate her 

based on first impressions.

(thunder crack)

Under that unintimidating petite frame is a 

vicious beast waiting to be unleashed,

whose natural powers have made even the fiercest of 

champions pee their pants, literally! 

(soft chuckle)

Born to the Air Tribe of the Ashari people, 

Keyleth was raised with a deep love

of nature and the elemental magics. 

It is her people’s inherent duty to protect the 

delicate areas in Tal'Dorei 

where the four elemental planes begin to bleed with this realm. 

Since she was a little girl, she had quite a knack 

for air manipulation and beast shaping abilities. 

Well, if you consider Kittens and 

flying squirrels to be little beasts.

Which, I do. 

(clears throat) 

Anyways, it wasn't long before the headmaster of the tribe, 

her father, Kohren,

realized her true prodigious abilities and 

she was inveterated to succeed him as the next headmaster.

Just like that, her jovial childhood was stripped and 

replaced with endless spell memorization, 

teachings from ancient traditions, 

and exceedingly high expectations. 

Every druid leader to be must embark on journey 

to seek out the sister tribes

in order to introduce and establish respect 

amongst the fellow headmasters. 

They call this the Aramente, or Noble Odyssey.

When her father felt she was ready, he set her on the path 

to truly discovering herself. 

Not knowing when, or if she will ever return. 

As she hiked down the mountain towards Stillben, 

she meditated on the task ahead. 

Part of the Aramente is proving yourself 

a strong warrior, a valiant protector,

and a wise and compassionate leader. 

With this knowledge, one thought plays

in repeat in her mind:

Is she even worthy?

Percy: Percy was the third child of 7 children, 

born to a noble family who lived far to the

north in the ancient castle of Whitestone. 

With so many siblings to share the burdens of 

lordship, Percy turned his attention to the 

sciences, engineering, and naturalism.

One day, a mysterious couple, 

named Lord and Lady Briarwood, came to court. 

During a feast held in their honour, 

the Briarwoods violently took control of the castle, 

killing or imprisoning everyone who would stand in their way.

Percy awoke chained in the dungeon, 

only to be freed by his younger sister. 

Together they fled, chased by the Briarwoods’ men. 

As they ran, Percy’s sister took 

several arrows to the chest and fell. 

Percy kept running, eventually jumping into 

a freezing river and floating unconscious to freedom. 

He did not remember waking up on a fishing boat. 

He barely remembered the next two years, as he 

slowly made his way as far south as possible.

Then one night, Percy had a dream. 

A roaring cloud of smoke offered him 

vengeance against those who destroyed his family. 

When he awoke, Percy began to design his first gun.

Scanlan: Oh, you haven’t heard of Scanlan Shorthalt? 

Well, gird your loins, ladies, 

because he has his eye on you. 

A talented musician, master of disguise, and dashingly 

handsome in his own mind, Scanlan sings songs 

almost as much as he sings his own praises.

Born a poor Gnome, Scanlan used his endless 

charm and soaring tenor voice to

croon for coin and support his single mother. 

One day he was discovered by a half-orc promoter, 

and joined Dr. Dranzel’s Spectacular Traveling Troupe

where he learned the ways of the world, 

and honed his skills as a bard extraordinaire.

A loner much of his life, Scanlan has never quite 

come to terms with the violent

death of his mother at the hands of a Goblin invasion. 

While his years on the road provided many, shall we say, 

educational experiences with the opposite sex, 

deep down Scanlan yearns for the one thing 

he’s never known: the true love 

of a fellow Gnome.

Still, Scanlan considers himself a lover first, 

performer second, and fighter distant third. 

On the battlefield, he’ll support his allies, 

but rarely draws blood unless it’s to protect 

fellow Gnome, Pike. Count on Scanlan for a hearty laugh, 

a rollicking song, and a twinkle in his eye that melts hearts 

and makes the females swoon.

Tiberius: Greetings and salutations. 

I am Tiberius Stormwind. 

I hail from a town called Ty'rex, 

located in the heart of Draconia, 

born from a politically respected family.

At the age of 15, I succeeded in passing the Sorcerer’s Rite, 

showing prodigy-like control of my magic. 

The judges and the Draconian high council were amazed at 

how powerful my spells were for how long I had been training. 

At 20 years old, I was the youngest appointed member 

of the magic guild in Draconian history. For the 

next few years, I almost went mad from the 

malaise of being a guild member, 

as it’s rather boring.

However, one day I happened upon a chamber, 

unused for quite some time. 

In the room were stacks of books and maps 

of the surrounding cities and areas 

around the known world. 

For months I would frequent the chamber, and learned 

of artifacts from legend. 

After a long period of research, I made a list of artifacts 

that caught my eye. 

I brought these findings to the high council and was told that 

all of the information in the chamber I had stumbled upon 

was either believed to be fiction, or unsolvable mysteries, 

and hence were lost forever. 

I found those answers to be unacceptable.

A year later I devised a ruse and managed to 

convince the city council to lend support 

in me leaving Draconia on a mission of peace 

and diplomacy for the surrounding kingdoms. 

Going from town to town and making friends and allies, 

in and for the name of Draconia. 

Being a red dragonborn, 

I had quite the task on my hands in that respect, 

but it was exactly what I needed so I could explore 

the world and find these artifacts, 

as I felt the truth was out there.

Some may describe me as buffoonish, 

but I say poppycock to all that. 

I am much sharper than most give me credit for. 

I just don’t pay attention to things sometimes. 

I’ve also been known to be rather cunning, loyal, 

happy-go-lucky, and well, dangerous. 

I can’t help but show my true scales every now and then. 

But overall, I think I’m quite friendly for a Dragonborn.

Vax: Never entirely welcome in the company of 

elves or men, Vax'ildan learned 

at a young age to skip past formality, 

preferring instead to invite himself in your door.

Along with twin sister Vex'ahlia, 

Vax was born by a chance encounter between Elven 

royalty and Human peasantry. 

Raised by their mother in their early years, the twins 

were eventually sent off to their father 

in the Elven capital of Singorn. 

But their cool reception among the Elves there never warmed, 

and their time in the capital didn’t last. 

The siblings stole away one autumn night and set out on 

the open road. 

After a few years of wandering, they eventually decided to 

return to their mother, and journeyed 

back to the lands of their youth. 

But instead of finding their childhood home, 

they returned to a pile of rubble. 

Their mother was gone, their home burned to ash. 

Pressing the townspeople for answers, 

they learned of the day the dragon came.

With their ties all severed, Vax'ildan and his sister 

set out to find their fortune together in Tal'Dorei. 

An outsider since birth, Vax quickly learned to solve life’s 

challenges in his own particular way, 

often by sidestepping them entirely. 

And when his knack for circumventing adversity isn’t enough, 

the way of blades the elves schooled him in 

more than makes up the difference.

Vex: Like so many Half-Elves, 

Vex'ahlia has spent most of her life suffering 

the cool reception of a people who don’t fully accept her.

Born of a Human mother, and an elven father who only later in life 

took an interest in their existence, 

Vex'ahlia and her twin brother Vax'ildan quickly

realized the only people they could truly rely on 

in this world were each other.

It was at the age of 10 when the two were taken from their mother, 

and brought to live in Singorn, 

the isolated Elven city for which their father was an ambassador. 

He quietly took them in, but always kept an icy distance, 

and after too many years of disdainful looks, 

the pair decided to leave his indifference behind, 

and set out on their own.

Vax took to the cities, stealing small trinkets and 

learning the ways of the thief, 

while Vex kept to the woods. 

She preferred the isolation. 

Always the keen observer, she learned to hunt and to track, 

to spy and to shoot. 

And through a series of fateful events, 

earned herself a companion in the form of a bear - 

her own stolen Trinket - 

to fight alongside her and protect her fiercely. 

Also he is adorable, and gives expert massages.

MATT: Hello, everyone. Welcome back. 

We've had our pee breaks.

We've had our refills of our drinks.

We’ve got Fireball, so I think we're good for the next venture. 

So anyway, the party has taken their rest for the evening. 

Once again, this is one of those weird experiences 

where you wake up, not because of the sun rising, 

because you can't see it in the dwarven city of Kraghammer, 

but eventually you all come to consciousness naturally. 

What is your plan of action?

SAM: Oh, Jesus, we should have all talked about this 

while we were all peeing.

(all laugh)

Grog: We’re gonna beat up everybody, right?

Scanlan: Are we going to the manor?

Percy: I say we have brunch, and we go to the manor -

LAURA: (laugh) Brunch.

TRAVIS: (laugh) Brunch?

Percy: I want to have brunch with everyone.

Scanlan: Eggs benedict.

Percy: I want dwarven brunch.

Vax: I want a traditional dwarven breakfast.

Keyleth: It's very good.

Dwarven eggs are very good.

Percy: They're small.

ORION: I tell them of my experience.

MATT: Okay, so Tiberius fills you all in about his experience, 

trying to get into the house Thunderbrand.

Grog: How you almost got killed?

Tiberius: I didn't, certainly not. 

I just couldn't get in the door. Rather rude!

Keyleth: Why did you think that after the magic hand failed that the 

big thunder ice wave would work?

Tiberius: What I thought is that I could cover the rune with ice and 

merely step over it. I didn't think it would dissolve my ice.

Percy: In his defense, there's only one way to find out.

Keyleth: That's true.

Grog: Did you sleep?

Tiberius: Yes.

Grog: Oh. I had to make sure, you know.

Tiberius: A good sorcerer always all his tricks before, 

you know, turning around, which is what I did.

Tiberius: And I think we should go back there because I feel 

that it's significant that I couldn't get in so easily.

Percy: We will, we will go back there. 

I don't think it's the next order of business but I think that there is - 

we're not leaving the city without dealing with that.

LAURA: Definitely.

Grog: Do we need to do something with the comment cards?

Vex: Oh...

Scanlan: (Laughs.) Please no.

Percy: Did you not fill out your comment card?

Grog: No, I did! But I know, like, three letters, so...

Tiberius: I'm sure that's fine.

Grog: ...Like, A, F, and A.

MARISHA: That's okay.

Percy: That sounds very positive.

Vex: Yes, I agree.

Keyleth: It's the thought that counts, Grog. 

It's the thought that counts.

Grog: I'm learning.

Vex: Did you put, like, a smiley face next to the A-F-A? 

TRAVIS: I covered my hand in ink and, yeah.

Vex: That works.

Percy: Very good. I think that went well.

Scanlan: Shall we try to make our way to the manor, then?

Vex: The Greyspine Manor, with our cask of fancy ale. 

Slash wine.

TRAVIS: Does the light ever change? 

Does the light ever change being underground?

MATT: No, it is a perpetual low red glow 

from all the stones that are embedded around the streets.

Vex: All right, I feel really sleepy and also 

very awake at the SAMe time.

Keyleth: Yeah, I know.

MATT: Oh, dwarves.

MATT: All right. 

LAURA: So what do you think?

TRAVIS: Should we go to the house?

Taliesin: Now I'm curious if there's dwarven coffee.

SAM: Let's go, let's do it.

MATT: You guys make your way after your brunch, 

your delicious dwarven brunch -

Taliesin: Thank you!

MATT: - which is very alcoholic.

TRAVIS: Yes!

Taliesin: It's like being in New Orleans for the weekend, 

every meal is gonna come with something alcoholic.

ORION: On the way there, I'm gonna cast alter self and turn into a dwarf.

MATT: All right.

LAURA: You're turning yourself into a dwarf?

SAM: Did you catch that? He just turned himself into a dwarf.

TRAVIS: You did?

MATT: Tiberius went (swoosh) into a dwarven form.

LAURA: What kind of dwarf? What do you look like?

TRAVIS: Are you a girl?

SAM: He is very handsome for a dwarf.

LAURA: Are you a girl dwarf?

MARISHA: Yes! You should be a lady dwarf.

SAM: Oh yeah, what kind of dwarf? A lady dwarf?

Taliesin: Dwarfette?

Tiberius: I would not do that again. 

LAURA: (Laughs.)

TRAVIS: Oh, you did do that, you did take it as a troll.

(all laugh)

Tiberius: Almost! She shot off the penis.

Vax: What is going on?

TRAVIS: That's where the troll dick came from.

Tiberius: Don't you remember Vax? I was almost raped by trolls.

MATT: A little backstory: there was a cavern interaction 

with two male trolls that they had stealthed up behind as a party. 

I love explaining this to the audience. 

Tiberius then polymorphed into a female troll to try 

and Bugs Bunny them, not realizing that dwarves who are 

underground and don't have female trolls -

encounter female trolls often enough to have a one track mind. 

And so he nearly got himself in a very bad situation. 

That was remedied by the party attacking and - 

Vex over here shooting off the troll's dick.

Which then, went in the bag of holding, which is disgusting.

LAURA: Yes!

TRAVIS: Yes, for a long time.

MARISHA: That's also where the hashtag not all trolls came from.

MATT: Yup, hashtag not all trolls came from that game.

ORION, LIAM: Not all trolls.

MATT: That is horrible.

Taliesin: Oh god. A-a-a-and bring it back.

MATT: Anyway, so...

MARISHA: Bringing it back.

MATT: You guys make your way to the residential district. 

The SAMe guards are there who were there the previous night 

that encountered you guys so, as you roll up with an entourage-

SAM: How many are there?

MATT: Currently, there are four.

TRAVIS: We can take them.

LAURA: Hi. I wave at Thompson.

MATT: He's actually not there. 

It's the two others that were with you. 

He is noticeably absent.

Vex: Oh. Oh, where's Thompson? 

MATT: They look at each other and they're like, 

"He's been given the day off."

Vex: Oh, really?

Vax: But as you can see, we brought one of your citizens 

with us to show us a tour of the city.

SAM: That's you.

Guard: Citizen? I haven't see you about. 

What's your name?

Tiberius: Oh, my name is Tiberius Kraghammer.

(all laugh)

Scanlan: Like Johnny New York.

Tiberius: Shoot, we're in Kraghammer, right?

Scanlan: We're in Kraghammer.

Tiberius: Oh, Stronghammer.

Scanlan: Johnny New York.

Guard: So, what is it, Kraghammer, or what was it?

ORION: I meant, I meant Stronghammer. 

Kraghammer is my father's cousin's side.

Guard: How drunk are ye?

Tiberius: I've been drinking since I've woken.

MATT: Make a persuasion check.

Scanlan: See, he is one of you!

Grog: I had a lot of breakfast.

ORION: Oh, yay, 19.

MATT: 19.

TRAVIS: Tiberius Kraghammer.

Guard: All right, all right, I haven't seen you around 

but obviously it's a bit early to be that fucked up. 

Tiberius: Very impressed, you know. 

MATT: Well,  what's your business if I might ask again? 

You already seen the statue.

Vex: Yeah, we saw the statue but we wanted 

to get a better look at it. 

So we brought this gift for the Greyspines 

and we wanted to present it to them. 

MATT: The two new carvers step forward and look at it.

Vex: It's really nice.

Keyleth: Oh yes.

MATT: One of them's like:

Guard 2:  I’ll tell you what. 

If you let us taste a bit of that, we’ll let you go.

Tiberius: (Slurred.) Oh, I mean, I've been drinking a lot of it, sure!

LAURA: I mean, a thimble of it because if any of it goes missing -

TRAVIS: Is it sealed? Is it sealed?

LAURA: Is it sealed? Can we tell if it's sealed?

MATT: You look at it. It does not have any sort of port or exit on it.

It is just a solid barrel.

Tiberius: Maybe, we can save some for them.

Vex: Oh, okay. Here's the thing. 

If we open it, it'll ruin the barrel, right?

Guard: Ah, that's right.

Vex: So, maybe we can save you a bottle of it 

when we open it inside. 

And we'll give it to you later.

MATT: Make a persuasion check for that. 

It's a very persuasion based encounter.

LAURA: Should I roll that one that failed me earlier 

or my little dice?

MATT: The little dice! They haven't come out yet!

LAURA: (Squeaky voice.) My little, little, tiny dice

MATT: Itty bitty dice.

LAURA: Teeny tiny dice.

Okay that's better, I rolled a 23.

MATT: Okay. They all kinda look at each other.

Guard: If you can save enough for all four of us please do. 

Bring it back, we’ll be looking forward to it.

Tiberius: Do you have any flasks that we could use to fill them up?

Vex: We've got some bottles don't worry.

Tiberius: Okay, I'm just asking.

Guards: We'll be waiting. 

And if you don't show with the drink, 

we'll go right to our supervisor.

MATT: They all nod.

Vex: Yeah, keep nodding. Here's the thing. 

I don't know if I can save 4 bottles worth, 

but I'll save as much as I can.

Scanlan and Percy: Just say yes. Just say yes.

Vex: Hey, I got it covered.

Vax: On our father's good name, 

we will bring you some of this.

That is a- That is a promise.

Grog: It's a good name.

MATT: They all look about each other.

Guard: Fine. Remember, we're waiting.

MATT: They all kinda look a little, 

they lick their lips a little.

They part and let you guys into the residential district. 

You make your way to the very back. 

You can see House Greyspine. 

Once again guys, for those who haven't been there before, 

it's a beautiful arrangement.

The iron gate around it with spikes on the top. 

You can see the entire front yard, 

it's about a good 80 yard walk to 

the front of the building itself. 

It's a quite a distance from the front gate 

and that entire area is filled 

with like a stone garden with various 

small sculptures and just interesting knick knacks 

they collected and put on display like as a small 

museum as you approach the front of House Greyspine. 

You get to the front door as a large 

double oak door about 10 feet tall, 4 feet wide, currently closed. 

There is no handle on the door.

TRAVIS: No handle?

MATT : No.

Tiberius: Hold on, wait, wait, wait. 

Don't knock on anything. Things shock you here.

Scanlan: Let's go knock on the door.

Percy: I want to double check, see if there's a bell to ring or 

there seems to be some sort of calling -

MATT: Easily enough, you see next to the door 

there is a small chain that just protrudes from the stone wall. 

It has a small bulbous ball at the end.

TALISEN: Ding ding. Ding-a-ding.

MATT: You pull it. Not a ding, but a large -

It is a heavier chain than you expected. 

As you pulled on it you feel some sort a large hammer-like object 

is slamming into a brass type material 

as it echoes and resounds in the building. 

Definitely announcing your presence.

Keyleth: Percy, can I try?

Percy: If you must, yes.

Keyleth: Okay!

MATT: It echoes into the house.

Keyleth: I just wanted to do that once!

Vex: Let's just hold off for now, all right.

Keyleth: I'm sorry.

Percy: You've never seen a chain to a house.

Scanlan: Should we ding-dong-ditch?

(All laugh.)

Vax: Scanlan perhaps a little ditty on strings 

will ease our introduction.

Scanlan: I'll start singing a little jaunty welcoming song. 

Hello, hello, we're here to pay you calling. 

Hello, hello I don't know what rhymes with calling.

(All laugh.)

Percy: “Calling,” at the very least. 

I thought you would go right there.

Scanlan: Yes, it's true.

MATT: Alright, are you just going to play the music 

for the sake of playing music?

SAM: Yes, for now.

MATT: All right. About 10 seconds have passed before the door - 

You hear a large (thump thump) and one of the doors opens up. 

You see a dwarf, with long grey hair slicked back 

and pulled into a ponytail. 

A very small trimmed beard, very proper, 

steps out in long black robes and goes:

Dwarf: Can I help you?

Grog: Percy?

Percy: Yes, Percival Fredrickstein Von Musel Klossowski de Rolo III.

Tiberius: You can call him Percy.

Percy: You can simply call me Percy, thank you. 

We're here to discuss some business with Lord Greyspine 

and we have of course brought gifts and our charming company.

Vax: As well as our dwarven compatriot to introduce us.

Tiberius: Yes, who? I am quite drunk right now.

MATT: He gives you an awkward look. 

It's like a look of trying to place your face.

Dwarf: Which lord are you looking for?

Vex: Actually Nostoc.

Tiberius: Is he the nice one? I would like the nice one.

Dwarf: Nostoc, I'm afraid, is currently working at the quarry, 

if he’s who  you're looking for.

Vex: Oh, of course he is.

Scanlan: If Gradon is here, is that his name? Gra- Gradon?

MATT: (Chuckles.) He gives you this look...

Dwarf: Gradem is not taking visitors.

Vex: Of course not.

Percy: That's a shame, we brought this half-barrel 

of ale right here and some -

Scanlan: And some very, very attractive mining contracts, 

but if there's no one here to talk about them then...

MATT: He gives you this look.

Dwarf: If you're talking mining contracts you want to go ahead

and head to the quarry and talk to, uh, Lord-

MATT: Looking him up again in my notes.

Dwarf: You want to talk to Nostoc Greyspine. 

He's the one who runs the quarry. 

As far as the Ironkeeper himself… 

I mean no offense, but only official political business.

Percy: Well this is definitely official political business. 

And I will also say, could you direct us to the quarry? 

We are new in town.

Dwarf: Obviously. Have you not been shown 

where the quarry is found?

Tiberius: I am new. I don't even know what's going on.

SAM: Jesus. 

Percy: He's been drinking since very early this morning.

Keyleth: He's on vacation. You'll have to excuse him.

Tiberius: I must say, I am having a wonderful time. 

Keyleth: Yeah. You know, friends are in town, 

he's showing us around.

Percy: What was your name, again?

MATT: The dwarf kinda gives you a subtle look, goes:

Dwarf: My name is Margrim. 

I am the servant of the Ironkeeper himself.

Vex: Of course!

Percy: Margrim, of course you're the servant. 

You are filled with poise and sophistication, 

and of course, above all, protocol. 

I would not wish you to break protocol 

which is why just some simple directions, 

for those of us who are wishing to do some official business.

We'll be right on your way and your house will return to order. 

Margrim: Right. The Iron Keeper is not open to business 

outside of pre-approved political understandings. 

Vex: Of course.

Margrim: If you don't have a pre-approved 

meeting put within our ledger, you won't be seen.

Vex: Of course not, but for the mining contracts, however, 

wouldn't we need to speak to Nostoc? Is there any way -

I hear it's very hard to get down into the mines.

It's very well-guarded, right? 

That's why we came to speak to him here. 

MATT: He leans over and looks at the cask of ale and says:

Margrim: Down to the mines, 

you just have to go to one of the chain platform posts 

at the edge of town that will bring you to the base area. 

Find your way to the mines there. 

That should be enough to get Nostoc’s attention. 

The rest is up to you.

Vex: Lovely. Thank you so much.

Scanlan: One moment, before we adjourn-

(whispers) Do we want to try to get into this place, 

or are we just going to go to the mines?

LAURA: (whispers) Maybe we should just talk to Nostoc first.

Scanlan: And ditch this place?

Percy: Every time we break into someone's house it turns out poorly.

Vex: We're trying to get to the mines essentially, so.

Vax: I think he's still listening.

Percy: Good man, good day.

Vex: Margrim, you've been wonderful. Thank you so much. 

We plan on keeping some of this ale and 

bringing it back to the household. 

Would you like some when we open the cask?

MATT: He looks down at the cask, looks up at you and says:

Margrim: I would not turn it down, a sip or two.

Vex: Lovely. We'll be sure to save you a small bottle.

SAM: I'm going to turn invisible.

MATT: As he's looking over there, you just vanish. 

All right.

MARISHA: You can do that?!

SAM: And I'm sneaking into the house.

Taliesin: Oh, god!

LIAM: To what end?!

TRAVIS: That's awesome! Who cares? Light it up!

SAM: I don't know why!

TRAVIS: He's gone nuts!

Margrim: Is that all your business?

Vex: I believe it is all of our business.

Margrim: Well, good day.

MATT: And he steps back into the doorway and 

closes the large oak doors.

You are now standing in the foyer of Palace Greyspine. 

A luxurious foyer, the floor itself is 

a fine dark velvet red carpet. 

There are tapestries across the walls 

and small wooden end tables set at the edges 

of the hallway, this foyer area 

that contains sculptures and 

vases and plants that exist underground specifically. 

There's a large stairway that leads up 

into the upper portion of the house 

and two doors at each side that lead to rooms 

you no longer can see. 

ORION: I use the earpiece and whisper:

Tiberius: What are you doing, Scanlan?! 

What are you doing?!

Scanlan: I don't know! Give me twenty minutes!

Vex: Twenty minutes, that's okay, 

let's all step away from the house. 

Keyleth: Ask if he needs assistance or divergent -

Taliesin: Divergent?

MARISHA: Divergent.

MATT: So, Margrim, of course, wipes his hands and walks away going:

Margrim: Ah, fucking foreigners.

SAM: I follow him where he's going. 

MATT: Okay.

SAM: My nervousness, I let out a little bit of a fart as we -

(all laugh)

MATT: Make a stealth check. 

ORION: Why are you making it harder on yourself?

SAM: 14 plus I'm invisible, plus 2. 16. 

MATT: Because you're invisible, 

I'll give you advantage on that. 

Go ahead and roll.

SAM: Oh, well. 14. Plus 2. 16. 

MATT: All right. 

So, as you scamper by, behind Margrim, following him 

towards what looks like the kitchen area of the abode, 

Margrim stops and turns, rubs his stomach, goes "Umf," 

and continues walking forward, 

seemingly unperturbed by the sound.

SAM: I'm just snooping around, 

trying to see if there's any lords

or higher ranking individuals in the area.

MATT: Okay, I'll say with the time that you have 

within the house, you wander through quite a few rooms. 

There's a wonderful music room, which contains 

a number of dwarven instruments that you've read of 

and many instruments that you know as well. 

You actually find another, 

what do you call it again? A shawm?

SAM: Shawm.

MATT: A shawm. You find another shawm within, 

more finely crafted than the one that you have. 

SAM: Oh, fuck.

MATT: A gift of lords, if you will.

SAM: I'm so tempted, but no.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: Does he have an earring on? 

Does he have one of our earrings?

LIAM: We all do.

MATT: Not everyone, you only made a few.

SAM: Just, just me and him.

SAM: He can talk to me, apparently.

Vex: Tiberius, tell him to look for paperwork of something. 

For the mines!

Tiberius: Scanlan, look for paperwork of something else, 

and by the way, 

all of you should be hearing me right now, you all have the ear-

MATT: Not everyone, you only have a few.

LAURA: You only made like 5 or something.

MATT: You could only afford 5.

Tiberius: (clears throat) Do all those things, Scanlan.

Scanlan: Great.

Grog: Who's talking right now?

MATT: As you look about the household, 

you also come across a couple of 

bed chambers that are locked, pretty hefty lock.

SAM: I can try.

MATT: Okay. You make your way up the stairway, 

and you can see there's a long hall that leads to, 

essentially, a throne room that is 

still partially under construction, mostly finished. 

And you can see it, it actually was an 

intentional build onto this house. 

House Greyspine, when the current Ironkeeper 

went into office, it seems, began to have this room built. 

And so it's nearly finished, but it's an extravagant room 

with a large stone and dark metal throne, 

steps lead up to it, and its raised dais-like 

pedestal in the center of the room. 

You can see a series of great magically glowing and flickering 

lanterns across them. 

And you see there are two dwarves inside 

that are currently finishing up the stone work. 

They're just doing various sorts of masonry 

and plastering in areas and carving out 

and chiselling out pieces of stone, 

and making them intricately carved in this flavour. 

But other than that the room is currently empty.

SAM: Shit. There's nothing to steal!

TRAVIS: Drop a deuce in the bedroom!

(all laugh)

MATT: #gnomishdeuce.

Tiberius: Dammit, Scanlan! Just get out of there! 

What are you doing?

LAURA: You totally should!

TRAVIS: An invisible poo!

LAURA: Invisible poo!

SAM: I’m, ah- I might as well try one of the doors that's locked, 

and see if I can pick it, but I'm not good at that, so I'll try.

MATT: Okay. Do you have on your person any sort of thieves' tools?

SAM: I have a forgery kit, a poisoner's kit-

MARISHA: Forge some thieves' tools real quick.

SAM: Climbing gear?

And a whip.

LIAM: I have one of the earrings, and I say:

Vax: Scanlan, what exactly is the purpose for this little escapade, 

and will it be ending shortly?

SAM: Can I reply?

MATT: You can, through the message-based ear enchantment. 

Scanlan: Just trust me, that I have no idea what I'm doing.

(all laugh)

MATT: So, do you wish to pick one of the doors?

TRAVIS: Do it.

LAURA: Do it! Try it! And then run away.

SAM: Yeah, I'm gonna try one!

MATT: Okay, you have disadvantage on this.

SAM: Of course I do.

TRAVIS: I love how we're just watching this happen.

Vax: Pike will mourn your death. 

MATT: So roll twice, and we'll consider this a -

We'll say just a straight dexterity check.

SAM: Eleven, plus… zero?

MATT: You futz with the door for a good minute, 

trying to bend a piece of wire you had, 

thinking to forge some tumblers, 

and eventually get to a point where you hear: 

(tink)

And it broke.

(all laugh)

SAM: I can't do two spells at once, 

so I will give it give it up and I'll make my way to the door.

MATT: Okay. The door is currently closed.

SAM: I become un-invisible and I cast Dimension Door. 

MATT: All right. 

MATT: You- (Whoosh.) -blink through this small, 

purplish arcane doorway,

it brings you directly outside. 

You guys are waiting, Scanlan just pops into view, ‘Ah!’

Scanlan: It was crazy in there! 

People were farting everywhere!

(all laugh)

Tiberius: Really, Scanlan. 

Scanlan: It was not me. They're building a throne room, 

there were some locked doors, man I wish you could have been there, 

it was exciting, but ultimately pointless. 

So let's go down to the mines!

(All laugh.)

Vax: I would like to stress again that 

none of these dwarves are our enemies, at all.

Vex: Soon, I'm sure.

Vax: We just want to go have some words with Greyspine.

Grog: And that we do not have our healer, at present.

Vax: Well we do, but she's very distracted, 

and is not feeling herself.

Vex: She's very quiet.

Scanlan: She wanted to stay at the inn this morning.

Vax: She's feeling awfully BAFTA today, so.

(All laugh.)

Scanlan: Let's make our way to the mines, shall we?

Grog: To the mines, then, yeah.

LAURA: Yes.

Vax: Let's go get this drunk dwarf!

MATT: Yes, the bard was doing a lockpick with no lockpicks. 

He was fashioning it from wire.

Exciting but pointless! All right. 

So, you, you make your way to the edge of the centre ring. 

You find that there are long spiral staircases that move 

to the bottom, where there are elevators 

that bring you to the bottom floor. 

The elevators are chain based, like a ratchet-type system 

with two carvers there, of course.

As you approach one, eventually you talk with them, 

they lead you down there, but once again they give you 

a look of, “Watch your back!”

LAURA: We point at the ale and give him a thumbs up!

MATT: They nod, and let you pass. 

As you continue downward into the lower area, 

you can see the red stone that lets a lot

of the atmospheric glow of Kraghammer is used less and less 

and a lot more central torches are now in place; sconces. 

Almost like the stone itself is either just rarer 

the further down you go or has less of an illuminating power 

the deeper into the earth. 

LAURA: (whispering) Okay, now I'm nervous.

MATT: You eventually reach into the center part of town. 

You now see from where you are standing a number of large structures 

in the very, very center of the bottom part 

of the city of Kraghammer. 

You can see there is a giant domed temple 

that is made of like gold and bronze in the center. 

It looks almost like a gargantuan gazebo that has 

doorways on each side that is currently closed off. 

No guards at it though. 

You do see a number of other buildings. 

There is a large, large, heavy, heavy looking foundry 

far off to the left of you that has a little bit of smoke 

that's coming off of it, but most 

of it looks to be filtered into a giant, metallic funnel 

that is then placed into the rock. 

Almost like all the smoke based exhaust is being funneled 

outside of the mountain. 

That is the closest; that's the foundry. 

And then to the right of you, you wander a bit 

and you can begin to see that part of the mountainside 

to the far right has that look of a strip mine, 

or like a large portion of the minerals has been pulled away 

and is currently being mined further. 

So that looks like probably 

one of the better places to look in looking for the Greyspine Quarry. 

You eventually make your way to the outside of the quarry. 

You now look down into three large pits that just descend 

deeply into the side of the mountain. 

This mine has been going for quite 

some time and a large chunk of this looks like 

it may be being prepped; 

almost like the mine is what's growing Kraghammer. 

The more they mine into the mountain, 

the more they fill the mined area 

with further city construction. 

It's this self perpetuating cycle of expanding the city downward. 

Currently in the quarry,

you can see there are a number of large, stone, dwarven buildings 

in the edge of it, one of which is the largest of them all, 

looks like it's made more of a black and red, iron aesthetic; 

some of it's been oxidized a little bit and has that rough 

and tumble, iron feel. 

And that one has the most guards around the base of it.

The carvers are gathered entirely around it. 

MATT: Looking down into the center of the quarry, you can see 

towards the bottom there are a number of tunnels that lead into 

the hillside of Cliffkeep Mountains proper, surrounding Kraghammer.

Grog: Let's go where the guards are.

Vex: Let's walk towards the guards.

Vax: Let's just do this directly, I think.

Scanlan: Just swords out.

Keyleth: Wait wait, wait. Before we go up, I take the cask of ale 

and I grow some pretty flowers on it, and I make a nice pretty 

bow and I shine it up a little.

Vax: Good work, hippy.

Percy: You're making a fruit basket?

Keyleth: No, I’m just - it looks attractive now. 

Percy: Like a fruit basket. It looks like a fruit basket.

Keyleth: It does not look like a fruit basket. 

It's not that ostentatious. 

Percy: It's the "Ale of the Month" Club.

Vax: In her defense, they probably don't see flowers too often. 

It's a nice touch.

Percy: That is very fair.

ORION: I'm going to take this opportunity to cast Stoneskin on myself.

MATT: Okay. Stoneskin is placed on you.

SAM: Are you a dwarf still?

Taliesin: Are you a dwarf made of stone?

MATT: You have not turned Alter Self off. 

You are still a dwarf.

ORION: Yeah, that's fine.

MATT: Oh, Stoneskin is a concentration spell, so yes, 

that would eliminate the Alter Self spell.

Okay, so you revert back to your dragon form, robed self, 

but Stoneskin is in effect.

MATT: You using your, what's it called again?

MARISHA: Druidcraft. It's really creative.

MATT: Druidcraft! Thank you. 

The Prestidigitation for hippies.

Portions of the wood begin to sprout from the outside of this dark 

wood barrel and form these entangled ivy vines that eventually 

embrace the entirety of this cask with little buds of dark, 

ruddy flowers. 

Something that would definitely appeal to a dwarven aesthetic.

MARISHA: That's hot.

MATT: You approach the guards, of which there are 

eight currently at the front.

LAURA: Can I see which one of them; use my perception to see 

which one of them looks maybe the most interested or weakest -

MATT: Would be more of an insight.

LAURA: Insight! Which one of them looks most interested in our party.

MATT: Yeah, go ahead and roll.

LAURA: Oh, good. I thought that was a 1 but it's not. 

It was a 13.

MATT: 13? Okay. Strangely enough they are fairly 

distracted and after a rather long,

uneventful morning most of them are just used to being in armor 

and waiting for business to go down. 

There are a few along the edges that look a little more alert, 

and one of them is looking occasionally down into the quarry. 

Just keeping an eye on the established area.

LAURA: Which one looks like the newest?

MATT: The newest of the bunch would be the one 

that's on the far left that is looking down into the quarry as well. 

He has a shaved head, has a small brownish beard 

that looks like he's just starting to grow out 

into a nice, long tuft. 

Either it got shaved in some, I don't know, 

terrible college dwarf accident.

You know part of his entry into some fraternity.

Grog: Dwarf culture. Dwarf Sigma Sigma.

MATT: It's a fairly thick tuft of unkempt brown beard 

that goes about that far out. 

It's just starting to be pulled in like tiny little scruffy braids. 

It's not quite there and he probably gets a lot of shit for it 

from the other dwarves. 

But he seems to generally be looking at you guys.

Vax:: Okay, work your magic.

Grog: Yeah, do your thing… fuck these dwarves up.

Vex: No, well, I was just - I just wanted to know -

Scanlan: What are we trying to do?

Vex: We brought this gift. Um, hello!

And we just address all of them, maybe, right now, yeah?

Percy: She is better at this, 

I am just going to let her do this.

Vex and Scanlan: Hello, hi!

Tiberius: Greetings and salutations!

MATT: The other guards reach back and grab their weapons. 

One of them looking to you.

Tiberius: Oh, you don't need that.

Vex: I look over at the shaved-head one 

and I hold his gaze for a little bit.

Vax: I give Vex a little push forward.

Dwarven guard: All right, what's your business?

Vex: Oh, yes, well... we are here to speak with Nostoc. 

We brought a gift for him that's quite remarkable actually.

MATT: They curl up around the apparent barrel that Grog's holding. 

They look wary of Grog but once they make note 

of the barrel they all  -

Guards: Ooooh.  

Grog: Right? It’s the shit.

(all laugh)

Dwarven guard: I’ve heard of this, 

but I have not seen anyone actually drink it. 

There were long standing rumours that this even existed.

Vex: It exists.

Scanlan: And it's for Nostoc.

Dwarven guard: This is a Balgus original?

Vex: Yes.

Dwarven guard: Signed by himself I see on the burned, emblazoned wood.

I'll go talk to him!

MATT: And he heads inside of the building, 

the doors close behind him. 

The other guards encroach, keeping a very keen eye, 

each one having a bead on the rest of your group. 

About two minutes pass before he comes back, 

opens the door and goes:

Dwarven guard: Nostoc will see you briefly, 

but you best bring the gift. 

I think that's what's holding his interest.

Vex: Of course.

Tiberius: Wonderful!

Dwarven guard: Inside, please.

MATT: And him and one other guard flank you guys as you enter, 

making sure that you are not left without that appearance. 

As you are led into the center of this portion 

of the mine's main structure,

a series of long hallways, you can see there is this general smell 

of soot and ash and broken stone dust in the air. 

A hint of brimstone-ish kind of a smell. 

It's not very pleasant, it's very well worn and pungent 

for those of you who spend most of their time on the surface.

As you enter there is a general dust in the air, 

a little light seems to peek through from the torches 

that are placed up along the wall. 

You can see this general haze amongst the interior here. 

It is definitely a work environment at the base of an underground 

dwarven establishment used to mine.

You are led further down the hallway. 

It curves to the left and you are brought 

into a large dwarven study. 

You can see there are books on the walls, 

a series of ledgers and paper stacks 

on a large desk and at the center 

there sits a dwarf with fiery red hair cut very short, 

almost like a buzz-cut on the top, 

with a long, long, long beard that is not braided 

but just kept very smooth and very… not curly, not bunched, 

it's a very straight beard. 

He is very clean cut, he already has this 

intimidating dark glare. 

As you walk into the room he goes:

Nostoc Greyspine: Okay, you brought me a drink. 

You have my attention. 

What brings you to the mines?

Scanlan: We should have talked this through before.

Percy: Well, several things actually. 

Several things bring us to the mine. 

My name of course is 

Percival Fredrickstein Von Musel Klossowski de Rolo III.

Everyone: You can call him Percy!

MATT: He raises his finger and goes:

Nostoc: You have not paid for your pleasantries yet.

Vex: Oh, of course, of course. Grog, if you would.

LIAM: Tap that motherfucker!

TRAVIS: I am assuming he had a goblet on the table.

MATT: As you pour it up he pulls under his desk 

and pulls up a goblet. 

As you fill it -

Nostoc: Top it off! Thank you! 

Now put on the side of the desk!

Scanlan: Wait! Mister Greyspine - 

Oh, okay, all right.

MATT: Puts it down.

Nostoc: (satisfied sigh)

Vex: Is it as amazing as we've heard?

Nostoc: It's pretty fucking good.

MATT: He takes another long drag, just - 

while making sure you all watch him do this. 

This goes on probably a little longer, the pageantry 

of him drinking this in front of you is definitely a power play, 

and he is establishing some sort of unspoken dominance in the room. 

Eventually he finishes his tankard, 

sets it down under the desk again.

Nostoc: Right… so. Where were we?

Percy: We were here to call upon your expertise. 

We imagine that we are not the first strangers to 

Kraghammer to come through -

Vex: -  in the last few weeks. 

Percy: - in the last few weeks. 

We believe one of our compatriots had some dealings with you, 

perhaps not as… pleasant as the dealings we are hoping to have.

Scanlan: A lady, in fact.

Vex: A halfling.

MATT: At which point, as you say that, 

he gets this grin to his face and goes:

Nostoc: Aye, I know of the one you speak.

Vex: Yes.

Nostoc: She is a strong-headed one, that one.

Percy: Yes.

Nostoc: She stepped on a few toes around this place.

Tiberius: Oh, is she clumsy?

Nostoc: One could say that, aye. 

You say you are compatriots of hers?

Percy: We are here to mend any broken bridges, so to speak.

Keyleth: Or broken toes, if you will.

Nostoc: She certainly left a mess in her wake. 

There's this strange vision quest she kept talking about. 

It brought her into atmospheres… 

portions of this city, portions of my business 

that she has no right trespassing on. 

She went against carver rules, 

she broke away from partial arrest 

and she went screaming down into the caverns of our mines 

without my permission, blade drawn 

on some crazed suicide mission.

Vex: You know what? We'll go after her. 

We'll bring her out. 

We'll get her out of your mines.

Nostoc: Great. I'd like that actually.

Vex: Good!

Percy: And we'd be happy to clear out anything unpleasant 

that we happen to find in there in the meantime.

Tiberius: How did she look?

Grog: What?

Nostoc: She looked small and angry. 

She seemed to have some weight to her. 

She was a strong lass.

Tiberius: So not a looker is what you are saying.

Keyleth: That's not very nice.

MATT: And he gives you this strange look and goes:

Nostoc: I will not discuss the physical aesthetics of a halfling.

SAM: The dwarf is a feminist.

Vex: How much would this task be worth to you? 

Obviously we are doing you quite a favour 

and we brought you quite a gift!

Scanlan: This cost us a thousand gold.

Tiberius (quietly to Scanlan): Did it?

Nostoc: Obviously this lass means a lot to you, doesn't she?

Vex: No, no, no, but I know she is probably 

wreaking havoc on your mines.

Vax: We've come to correct the wrongs 

that she's done and come to bring her home.

Keyleth: It also sounds like there are some other 

terrible things wreaking havoc on your mines.

Nostoc: There is nothing going on, we're fine. 

We have everything under control, 

we don't need your help for that. 

If you want to find your friend, 

go find her! If she is still alive.

If not, take her corpse back and leave.

Percy: It's not help, sir. 

We are simply respecting you as a businessman. 

And as a businessman I am sure 

that you would disagree with unceremonious charity 

whether it would be to give it or receive it. 

We are making sure that our dealings with you 

are fair and balanced.

Nostoc: I appreciate your offering. 

You have bought your time. 

Now, if you are here to go find your friend I’ll let you pass. 

You may pass into the mine.

But - if at any moment you cross over 

to any sort of thieving bullshite -

MATT: Looks over at you.

Nostoc: - I recommend that you fall down the SAMe path 

your friend likely did and get killed real quick. 

I don't take kindly to those who cross on my business.

Percy: I doubt that we could find anything of more value 

that what we have already brought you.

Vax: We are here to right wrongs and I promise you, 

our business is finding her and returning home.

Nostoc: Then go.

Vex'ahlia: Is that our business?

Grog: Yeah, we are here to right wrongs and right lefts.

Percy: And write comment cards.

MARISHA: Wait, before we dive into this mountain - 

we know that there's ghouls and god knows what else down there. 

Shouldn't we find out?

Tiberius: Yes we should. Maybe some arcane house could tell us 

how to deal with these things.

Vex'ahlia: Yes, yes, yes, yes.

Do we have permission to enter within the next few days? 

Obviously we might need to be prepared.

Tiberius: Yes do we have badges that we wear over - 

so that they know -

Nostoc: I'll speak with the men. They’ll let you down.

If you come back, good on you. 

I think our business here is done.

Percy: Yes.

Tiberius: Very good!

MATT: At which point you hear muffled in the distance 

a loud ringing of a very loud bell. 

At which point he kinda perks up a bit.

Nostoc: Our business here is done. 

Please, shove off.

Scanlan: Which way do we go?

MATT: He looks over to the two other guards who are up front. 

The two carvers say, “This way.”

LIAM: While he is talking I take a flask out of my cloak and 

approach the barrel and surreptitiously pour 

a little bit of it into the flask.

MATT: Sleight of hand check.

SAM: Oh Jesus. You’re stealing beer?!

ORION: No, no, because we have to give it to those guards.

SAM: Fuck those guards, I can kill them all.

TRAVIS: Roll, roll, roll you bastard, roll.

LAURA: Can I talk to good old Nostoc while he's doing that?

MATT: He currently does not seem like 

the talkative type at the moment, 

you can certainly try.

Taliesin: I am going to make a fumble. 

I am going to attempt to assist a slight of hand 

with a bit of a fumble.

MATT: He has already rolled it.

LAURA: Damn it. I am going to fall down. 

In front of Nostoc.

SAM: Oh!

LIAM: 13. 

SAM: No chance.

LAURA: I am going to fall down in front of Nostoc.

LIAM: 13.

MARISHA: Come on!

Taliesin: He is distracted by a bell.

MATT: As you fill your flask...

(all groan)

MATT: You hear this loud - (clears throat) -

Vex: Ow, ow, oh my ankle.

(all laugh)

Vex: It hurts so very much.

MATT: This is the first time you have witnessed 

the pristine, delicate yet well trained palm of a dwarven hand 

go straight to its forehead.

(all laugh)

Vax: I carry the flask up to his cup and refill it and say, 

“In my kingdom when a deal is set we drink together. 

And I would like, not much, but to just pour us all a drink 

and agree, surely this cask is weeks worth of-”

Nostoc: Get out of my office.

SAM: Let’s just go.

MARISHA: Take the flask.

Vax: I can see it is a cultural difference, my apologies.

Tiberius: Stop it. Just go! What are you doing?

LIAM: You’re one to talk!

ORION: I am on the earring.

MATT: At which point, a second and a third bell starts going off 

and the guards that are waiting for you guys - 

they start leading you outside 

and as you make your way outside the main building, 

you can now hear voices shouting, down the corridor below.

LAURA: I lean down to one of the guards and say:

Vex: What is that bell for?

Dwarf Guard: Something is flushing out of the quarry.

LAURA: Flushing, what does that mean?

Dwarf Guard: We don't know.

MATT: At which point some of the guards are 

motioning each other to follow and some of them 

start going down to one of the tracks that leads down 

to one of the nearest quarry below.

Taliesin: Just try and like practically usher 

our guards in that direction, 

since they seem to want to go in that direction. 

Let’s see if we can push them in that direction.

MATT: Okay, you guys follow down towards the quarry, 

you ask the guard that question and he goes:

Guard: I don't know, we have had quite a few 

interesting things come through.

Vex: Like what? Oh, like what?

TRAVIS: He already said.

MATT: He kinda swallows and says:

Guard: Things I can't describe.

Percy: Well, we can certainly help, lead on.

MARISHA: Is there anybody running out?

MATT: Not yet. As you head halfway down the quarry walkway, 

you begin seeing dwarves start running out 

of one of the large quarry tunnels.

MARISHA: I grab one of them.

MATT: Well, they are quite a distance from you. 

You are still walking down the side. 

They’re a good 100 feet from you.

MARISHA: Okay.

MATT: They start running at you, you see blood 

streaking down one of their faces.

Grog: Yes!

MATT: They're charging out, one of them has a weapon and is limping, 

and you start seeing small green scampering things rushing through. 

1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 10, goblins come rushing out of the tunnel.

MARISHA: Oh, shit!

Scanlan: Aah, I don’t like these guys.

MARISHA: Don’t you have a family history or something?

LAURA: We should attack them! I string my bow.

MATT: The three dwarves that are running out, one of them gets 

hacked down by one of the goblins and jumps on them 

and is tearing his neck.

Taliesin: I take a shot. Right now.

LAURA: I take a shot. I shoot it!

MATT: Okay, both you guys roll -

LIAM: I throw a dagger.

MATT: You throw a dagger?

LIAM: Yeah.

MATT: Three of you, roll for attack.

Taliesin: 19.

LAURA: 15.

ORION: Is there a clear area with just a bunch of goblins running?

MATT: There is an open, almost like a funnel towards the tunnel.

ORION: I’m gonna throw a little fireball, right there. 

Where those guys are.

MATT: Okay, so you guys you all hit from this distance

because goblins are puny little things. 

They are still a little small to see but you are all 

pretty well trained and pretty honed with your aim. 

You fire, simultaneously, gunshots echo through the hallway, 

arrows, flying dagger, you see three goblins 

just fall off a nearby dwarf who goes:

Dwarf: Unh, thank -

MATT: - at which point a large fireball explodes, 

killing off about 10 or so of the goblins.

And probably 2 of the dwarves.

Tiberius: I am sorry about that.

MATT: At which point, the guards kinda stopped.

Scanlan: Did you do that?

Tiberius: Yeah.

Scanlan: Fuck.

MATT: And they they start looking around and 

they see you pull out your weapons and they all 

take a step back and realise 

they don't want to die either.

Guard: Well go, if you’re going to help, go!

Percy: We run straight in.

MATT: With you guys charging in, you can now see 

a handful more goblins are rushing out. 

They are like running really fast, sprinting -

Keyleth: I throw Entangle up, in the distance 

where they’re coming from.

MATT: Okay, what’s the radius on that?

MARISHA: Like a hundred feet.

MATT: That's the range. What is the radius?

MARISHA: Oh, 20 foot radius.

MATT: 20 foot radius. Okay. 

So you find a portion of the central part 

where the things exit from the tunnel and 

you see these strange reddish vines begin 

to protrude and to begin to grab 

nearby goblins and pull them up in this massive, 

weird vine creature.

At which point you hear - (stomp stomp) - and you now see two 

larger ogre-like creatures come storming out.

Keyleth: Oh, shit!

Tiberius: Wonderful!

LAURA: Ogres?

MATT: Everyone roll initiative.

(all cheer)

MARISHA: Oh, fuck. Goddammit.

ORION: Fuck yeah.

TRAVIS: Take it!

MATT: All right, do we have initiatives 25 to 20?

Taliesin: 27.

MARISHA: Holy shit! You rolled a 20?

Taliesin: I rolled a 20 plus 7.

ORION: 21.

LAURA: Oh I didn't roll yet. Wait, wait! I didn't roll yet.

MATT: Okay, 21 you said?

ORION: I have 21.

MATT: 21 for Tiberius. 

What did you get? 

One? 

Awww.

MARISHA: Oh, I rolled a 2.

LIAM: Well, wait. It's 6 with the plus.

Scanlan: Fellows. I don't like goblins.

LAURA: 18.

MATT: You now see Scanlan, who’s usually a jovial individual, 

his eyes begin to tense with fury.

Scanlan: I don't like goblins.

Keyleth: Is there anything that you know?

Scanlan: No, they will all die. Don't spare any of them.

TRAVIS: Copy that.

LAURA: 18.

MATT: All right, so we have -

TRAVIS: 18 too.

Taliesin: 27!

LAURA: What?!

TRAVIS: Yeah, buddy.

Taliesin: I have 27 initiative.

MATT: 15 to 10? 10 to 5? 6.

Taliesin: Wow, oh my god.

SAM: I got a three.

MATT: Okay. (laughs) All right.

MARISHA: 4.

LIAM: It was a sudden attack, man.

SAM: We weren't ready.

MATT: You got a 3.

MARISHA: To be fair I just cast entangle. It kinda works. 

I'm distracted holding entangle.

MATT: Yeah, it's fine. All right. 

And then we have Scanlan. 

I'll get you guys in placement here, 

as your bear is currently back at the inn.

LAURA: He is still?

MATT: Unless you wanted to bring him along.

Taliesin: I thought we brought him along.

LAURA: Well, I thought I brought him. 

I should have mentioned that.

MATT: All right, we'll say you brought him along.

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: That's fine.

LAURA: I'm sorry, I should have emphasized that more.

MATT: Do keep in mind... That's all right.

Those of you going first we're going to keep you on the field here.

LAURA: Oh, god.

MATT: A number of goblins that are currently held over here.

SAM: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10.

LAURA: They're easy. Goblins are easy. 

Orcs, orcs are not.

TRAVIS: Yeah, those are mine.

LIAM: Ogres.

LAURA: Ogres?! 

MATT: All righty. So top of the round, Percy you're up.

Percy: I'm sitting down and I'm busting out Bad News.

MARISHA: Bust out Bad News!

MATT: Okay. So Percy stops just as he gets to the quarry, 

a little bit elevated, and he pulls out 

from a small sack on his back this large elongated contraption, 

this weird construction that looks similar to 

the Pepperbox he usually carries, 

but much larger and cumbersome. 

He sets it up on the ground with a small stand at the front 

and preps itself with a visual point.

Percy: Ogre.

MATT: Ogre back here?

Percy: Yup.

MATT: All right, go ahead and roll for your attack with Bad News.

MARISHA: Have you used it before?

Taliesin: Nope, first time.

MATT: His own tinkered construction, Bad News.

Taliesin: That's a... 30 attack.

MATT: Yup, that'll do it. Go ahead and roll damage.

MARISHA: Does that critical for you?

Taliesin: 19 actually might.

MATT: Natural 19?

Taliesin: Natural 19.

MATT: Yeah, that should critical for you.

Taliesin: That does critical for me.

I've never criticaled with this either. 

What does that mean?

MATT: That means the damage dice you double.

Taliesin: Oh, perfect.

MATT: So, roll for damage, double that, 

and add your modifier after that.

MARISHA: Come on, come on, come on! 

Big money, no whammies. 

Yeah! Hell yeah!

Taliesin: 22, 23, 24, 25, 26.

27 points of damage.

TRAVIS: Get after it, big man!

MARISHA: Is that doubled?

Taliesin: That's doubled.

MATT: All right, so. 

You guys hear this cacophonous (explosion),

this large blasting sound, a flash of blue energy and sparks 

shoot out the back of the weapon. 

It actually lifts Percy off the ground for a second 

and he shifts himself from the sheer blast. 

LAURA: Woah!

Taliesin: I built a sniper rifle.

MATT: This streaking, heated bullet, almost reddish, white hot, 

goes cascading through the air, 

plunges into the side of the ogre's shoulder

with a sMATTering of blood splattering against the cave behind it. 

It's actually moved back a step and has to catch itself.

Slams its club into the ground. 

That ends your turn? 

Taliesin: I can't do anything after that. 

That's just reload.

MATT: All right, Tiberius you're up.

ORION: I move within 60 feet of those big fellows.

Taliesin: Bad News travels far and fast.

MARISHA: Nothing travels faster.

MATT: This is the entanglement by the way.

LAURA: Oh, okay.

ORION: Right before there.

MATT: Everything there is kinda fighting from the entanglement. 

ORION: Great.

MATT: Most of these goblins are currently inside of it.

ORION: I'm gonna shoot a Scorching Ray at the big guy.

MATT: Both of them?

SAM: He said he moved - he moved within 60 feet of them.

MATT: So, you moved up to here? All righty.

MARISHA: And they're all entangled, yeah?

ORION: That's good right there.

MARISHA: Still have Entagle up.

MATT: These guys here are entangled. 

These front goblins are not. 

Scorching ray you said at which ones?

ORION: Actually, oh there's a bunch of those dudes, aren't there? 

I'm gonna do a fireball instead. 

Right in the center of the juiciness where 

I can get a couple little guys and both the big guys.

MATT: All right, so I'd probably about there would be where you'd want it.

ORION: I'm gonna do that, and I'm gonna spend 

two sorcerer points immediately to do quickening spell 

and do another spell right after that.

MATT: Okay. So as you rush up, you pull back your hand 

and you see the arcane red energy begin to flow in your palm. 

You then throw the beam out, and it arcs, slams into the center, 

and explodes hitting each of these five goblins 

and the two ogres. 

What's your DC on your spell?

ORION: My DC on my spell is...

MATT: Top of your spell page. On the right.

ORION: Oh! Wait. Oh! Seventeen, sorry.

MATT: Seventeen, okay. Wow! The two ogres actually make their saving throws.

LAURA: Ugh!

MARISHA: Boo!

MATT: They got eighteen and a nineteen.

TRAVIS: Roll crappier, ogres!

MATT: The goblins, however, all disintegrate.

LAURA: All of them?

MATT: There's no way they're gonna survive the damage you - 

they just (poof noise).

You see this hint of a red ash mist just go, "Eee!"

where they once were, and they are all turned to black nothingness. 

However, roll damage for the ogres. 

They get half damage 'cause they made their reflex save.

ORION: Yeah.

MATT: So 8d6 damage.

SAM: 8d6.

SAM: Seven. Eight, nine, ten, eleven, twelve, thirteen, 

fourteen, fifteen, sixteen, seventeen, eighteen, 

nineteen, twenty one, twenty two, twenty three, 

twenty four, twenty five, twenty six, twenty seven!

TRAVIS: What?

MATT: Twenty seven, so half that.

MATT: Okay, so as the blast of fire dissipates, 

you can see one of the ogres is now burnt on half of its chest.

LAURA: Yeah, he is.

MATT: Looking a little rough. 

There's blood streaking down from the side of his face 

where the shrapnel got thrown at him. 

And the other ogre’s looking okay.

Tiberius: He's a large creature isn't he?

MATT: Yes.

ORION: I'm gonna use my second spell and do Telekinesis 

and pick one up and try to hurl him into the other one.

MATT: Okay.

Which one? The one left here?

ORION: The one that's beaten up already.

SAM: I'm hard right now!

(all laugh)

MATT: He does fail his saving throw.

LAURA: That's just your flute.

SAM: Yes.

MATT: So you lift him up in the air and throw him into that.

TRAVIS: Strangely aroused by your flute.

MATT: That ogre is knocked prone by the impact.

All: Yeah!

MATT: The other one is also knocked prone.

(all cheer)

MATT: Before just (splat noise) into the wall, 

both of them slam to the ground.

MARISHA: With my vines, I make sure my vines really grapple him.

ORION: I turn to Grog:

Tiberius: They're all yours buddy!

MATT: Go ahead and roll 2d6 impact damage for the force of the throw.

Tiberius: Sweet! Impact damage?

ORION: Ten.

MATT: Ten damage to each of them?

ORION: Yeah.

MATT: All right. Both of the ogres are now on the ground - (grunts) -

reeling from the impact. 

That brings us to Grog and Vex going simultaneously.

Grog: Ladies first.

LAURA: Oh! Well, all right. 

I'm gonna cast Hunter's Mark on the most damaged one.

MATT: Okay, that'd be this one here.

LAURA: All right. And then I'm going to shoot lightning arrow.

MATT: All right. Do you want to move a little closer?

LAURA: Yes, I do.

MATT: All right. 

MATT: So, that would put you right there.

LAURA: All right, cool. 

I'm gonna shoot lightning arrow at them.

MATT: Okay. So, you pull out your arrow and as you pull it back, 

a little bit of energy courses through your fingers, 

strikes through your arrow. 

You can now see this crackling energy as 

you're pulling it taut in your bow.

You let it loose. Go ahead and roll for attack.

LAURA: Okay! Twenty one!

MATT: Twenty one hits.

LAURA: All right. And then I do... something else. 

1d8. Right?

MATT: Yep. You do the damage of the arrow 

plus the damage of the spell.

LAURA: Holey-moley! So that's this. 

Thirteen for the arrow and then 4d8 for the spell.

LAURA: Eight. Four- twelve. Plus three, fifteen. Seventeen!

MATT: Seventeen. Okay. The ogre that's been beaten, 

blasted by the fireball, it's getting up - (grunt).

It grabs its club, and it begins to get up on one leg 

as the lightning arrow slams into its chest. 

You can see it hits.

Looks down for a second, 

and then the charge pulses through its entire torso.

As it does, it screams out, "Argh!" into the cavern, 

its whole muscle system locks tight 

and it falls forward again, onto its chest, 

smoke rising off of its whole upper area, 

unmoving, on the ground. 

He is gone.

TRAVIS: Dang! Come on now!

MARISHA: Fuck him up.

LAURA: Yes! And then the other one takes 2d8 

if he fails his saving throw.

MATT: Which, with a one, he does.

LAURA: Yes! Oh, he fails it so good.

(all laugh)

MATT: So, go ahead a roll damage for other ogre.

LAURA: Two... ten.

MATT: Ten damage. Nice. So as he falls to the ground, the arc 

arcs over to the other one who drops his club for a second.

Picks it up angrily.

LAURA: I can reassign my Hunter's Mark to him now?

MATT: You can.

LAURA: Yes.

MATT: Yes, all right That brings us to...

LAURA: Oh, my Hunter's Mark! 

I didn't do my Hunter's Mark damage.

But it doesn't MATTer. He's dead.

MATT: It doesn't MATTer. You killed him.

LAURA: All right, cool.

(all laugh)

MATT: So you just ultra killed him! 

(valley girl voice) He is so dead. Oh my god. 

This ogre is done. 

(normal voice) All right. So the other ogre's angry. 

It's now the goblins' turn.

These goblins rush up. They are just dashing forward.

MARISHA: (valley girl voice) Oh my god, Becky, they are so dead.

Taliesin: (valley girl voice) They’re just like, dead.

MATT: This one moves around, and this one runs around to there.

No attacks.

Everyone make an insight check. 

SAM: Insight check? Oh shit.

MARISHA: What happened? Why are we doing this?

Taliesin: I literally get a 1.

TRAVIS: (sings) Natural 20! 

On an insight check. 

MARISHA: 20 total. 20.

LAURA: 22.

SAM: 4.

MATT: All right.

Taliesin: Natural 1. 

I'm really not paying attention.

MATT: You're dealing with the fact that 

you just fired your gun for the first time 

and it kinda burned your hands a little. 

You're like "Ugh!"

SAM: Grog.

MATT: Grog -

TRAVIS: Recites poetry.

(all laugh)

MATT: Grog is familiar with one thing: 

fear in the eyes of his enemies.

Looking at these goblins, they're not charging to attack. 

The attacks seem to be instinctual. 

They are -

MARISHA: They're running.

MATT: Running. 

MARISHA: Oh no!

MATT: They are scared.

LAURA: Yes!

MATT: They are fleeing from something.

SAM: From the ogres?

TRAVIS: Something behind the ogres.

LAURA: Oh no. 

Scanlan: May I make a request that you kill them anyway?

Grog: It's like playing croquet at this point, so yes.

(all laugh)

MATT: Grog, it's your turn. 

Grog: I would like to RAGE! 

And I would like to move to the right 

of all those stinking goblins!

MATT: Right over here?

TRAVIS: Yeah, a little more to the right, 

yeah a little more, 

yeah keep going, 

all the way flanking it there - 

yeah, yeah. 

MATT: All righty.

Grog: Yeah, and then I would like to give them 

the cleanest shave possible with my greataxe.

(all laugh)

MATT: All right. Go ahead and roll for attack on the first one.

LAURA: Oh yeah, that's a good one!

TRAVIS: Eighteen plus 8… that's 26?

MATT: That definitively hits.

TRAVIS: Word.

MATT: Go ahead and roll damage.

TRAVIS: Oh, damage, crap.

LIAM: (sings) Decapitation!

TRAVIS: 2 plus the 4...

13!

MATT: 13? Okay. So, as you rush up, you bring your axe 

into the first goblin to your right - (whoosh) - clean. 

You don't even feel resistance.

TRAVIS: Hey!

MATT: You hear this little (wheeze) sound as this being is bisected.

Grog: Oh, that was cute. 

MATT: Its head and upper torso just rolling off 

to the side before rolling to a stop. 

However, the inertia of your axe still keeps through 

to the one on the other side of you. 

Go ahead and roll for your second attack on that.

TRAVIS: 21! 

MATT: Also hits, go ahead and roll damage.

TRAVIS: Oh, that's… was 8 plus 7 is... 15!

MATT: As you cleave through the first goblin, you swing around, 

another goblin looks up at you, scared, 

and pulls a dagger out with its gnarled tongue, (hisses), 

at which point the ax embeds itself 

straight into its face.

Its angry face goes, "G-agh!" and 

just falls slack against your blade. 

You lift backward, 

and it's stuck to the edge of your axe.

(all laugh)

MATT: Just limply dangling against- 

you shake it off a little bit. 

Grog: Double prizes! Yeah! 

MATT: Great. That ends your turn. 

The thing about Rage is that you can use your bonus action 

for a third attack.

TRAVIS: No.

MATT: If you wanted to do a frenzy action, 

but you don't need to. 

That brings us to the ogre's turn. 

The ogre gets up, let's see if it makes 

its saving throw for an attempt to get out. 

It does with an 18. 

However, the ogre - it gets about that far, 

it’s going to make a double move.

LAURA: Double move?!

Taliesin: He's running.

MARISHA: I still have entangle up.

MATT: I know. He managed to resist it.

LAURA: He saved against it.

TRAVIS: He was on the ogre track team in college.

MATT: It's a big ogre.

MARISHA: Poop.

MATT: All right, the ogre takes his full turn 

to get up in melee with you guys.

It does not have its attack since 

it used its full movement there. 

And once again you see as it's lumbering forward, 

it also has this look in its eye of desperation.

SAM: Oh crap.

MATT: Now it is Vax's go. 

LIAM: My sister's right in the face of the ogre, correct?

MATT: Correct.

LIAM: Excellent. So, I'm going to take a run towards my sister, 

since she's right close to him, he's distracted, 

so I'm going to turn just as I get to her, 

so my back presses against hers and swing around

and sneak attack two daggers up in his belly.

Vex: We've practiced this, I turn.

(all laugh)

MATT: All right. So as you dodge to the side 

just this blur of shadow and speed, 

you just coast up to the side of your sister, 

dagger both plunge towards the side 

of the ogre, go ahead roll for an attack.

LIAM: All right. One. 

And then the other one I do a poison dagger, 

gets a (singing) 20!

TRAVIS: Oh, put it on him brother!

MATT: All right.

LIAM: That is dagger of venom, 1d4 - 3, plus 2 is 5, 

and then is the sneak attack damage go with - ?

MATT: Yeah it does because you have another ally adjacent to it.

LIAM: Right, fine. 

MATT: You don't get advantage on the attack roll

but you can still do the sneak attack.

LIAM: Critical hit, too, as well, wouldn't it?

MATT: Yeah! You can multiply the sneak attack damage. 

LIAM: So 5, plus- and the double goes to the sneak attack damage?

MATT: It does. Modifiers don't double, 

but any dice you roll double. 

LIAM: 9, 15...

MATT: In my game.

(clicks tongue)

LIAM: So 30 plus, uh, 5, 35.

TRAVIS: Damn!

MATT: 35 damage. 

ORION: Yeah!

LIAM: Plus poison.

MATT: The poison's not going to factor in. 

LIAM: Okay.

MATT: You swing past her, both blades 

jam right into the side of its rib cage. 

You hear it howl out in pain.

As it does, you twist the daggers 

in a way where both blades are now 

going in two different directions, 

and you carve out a section of its entire abdomen.

All: Ugh!

MATT : As you do, the flesh, almost like whale blubber, 

just - (splat) - sloughs off the sides of it. 

Organs spill out, intestines, and it kinda looks down 

and tries to pull them back in.

(panicked groaning)

At which point you see the color draining from its face, 

and you just kinda lean up and kick it down. 

The ogre - (groans) - and falls to the ground lifeless... 

destroyed.

(all laugh and cheer)

Taliesin: You gave him just enough time to regret 

everything that had ever happened.

MATT: Yes.

Taliesin: Well done... bad life choices.

MATT: That brings us to Keyleth.

MARISHA: (as the ogre) I didn’t call mom enough.  

I should’ve called mom.

MATT: There are two goblins left.

MARISHA: Okay. I do a quick sprint jog up kinda up towards Grog 

and go (boof) and bring up a big stone wall. 

Right where that entrance is.

MATT: Right here?

MARISHA: No. Like, right where things are pouring out. 

MATT: Right, here?

MARISHA: Yeah.

MATT: All right, Wall of Stone.

MARISHA: Wall of Stone... boom.

MATT: All right.

A giant wall of stone now completely seals off 

that part of the mine.

Tiberius: You closed it off?

Keyleth: I closed it off. 

We don't know what’s in there, 

we should talk about this for a second, 

and I bought us some time. 

I'm sure it’s going to try to beat 

through that door in a  second.

MATT: I'm going to say that you moved 

up to there with your movement.

All right, I’d say probably over here, 

not right next to the goblins and 

that will give you enough range. 

Okay, so the all of stone - (boom)

MARISHA: Are there any guards around still? 

Any dwarven guards.

MATT: They are all just watching you do this now. 

They don't want to put their lives at risk, 

and you guys seem intent on getting into the middle of this battle, 

so they are just going to sit back and let you do it.

MARISHA: I throw up my wall and turn around and I say:

Keyleth: What’s coming?! 

Tell us! You know what’s coming! 

What’s coming!?

MATT: Make an intimidation check.

LAURA: Keyleth, you are so hard core.

MARISHA: I'm not good at this.

SAM: You speak goblin?

MARISHA: [sadly] Oh, four.

(all laugh and groan)

Taliesin: Make a pity roll.

MATT: A very gentle attempt at intimidation, 

however, the message gets across. 

The guards look at you, taken off guard.

Keyleth: We are about to die. 

It is in your best interest to tell us. 

Guards: We don't know! It’s been different things. 

Strange abominations. 

It’s hard to describe. They’re - 

- put together. 

Something’s making things down there.

Keyleth: What kind of things? From where?

MATT: As they’re talking you hear a (boom) against the stone. 

TRAVIS: I bring out my blade.

MATT: So, the stone cracks, and you can see a noticeable crack 

and an audible - (cracking noise).

LIAM: I'm running right now diagonally towards the wall 

and I press against the wall.

LAURA: Oh, good call. 

I do the SAMe thing on the other side. 

MATT: Okay, so you come over here, 

do you want to bring Trinket with you?

LAURA: Yeah!

MATT: All right.

Taliesin: You're all so fancy.

MARISHA: I cast Stoneskin on myself. 

Vex: I’m stealthing, I’m stealthing.

MATT: Roll stealth both of you.

ORION: How tall are the walls? I mean the ceiling.

Mat: Oh, the ceiling right now is 

the rest of Kraghammer for the most part.

TRAVIS: Hundreds, hundreds.

MATT: Yeah, it is a huge ceiling. 

ORION: I get within casting range.

TRAVIS: What’s in the middle? Are those fires?

MATT: These are braziers here. 

By the way, Stoneskin goes, this disappears.

TRAVIS: The entanglement?

MATT: Yeah, the entanglement is gone. 

But there are minecarts, some rocks, 

there is a smashed cart over here 

from when the ogre barreled through. 

This is just a piece of stone 

that rises about 15 feet, 

and these are both braziers 

for light in the center of the area. 

So - it’s hundreds and hundreds of feet up.

You can look up to the very top of Kraghammer from here. 

ORION: Okay, that’s fine.

MATT; So whatcha got? 

Well, let’s see. So Keyleth. 

That is your turn, Stoneskin and moving up. 

So, anywhere else you want to go? 

I mean, technically, right now we are not in combat.

SAM: Right. We are out of combat.

MATT: Briefly.

TRAVIS: Yeah, we are waiting for the homecoming dance to start.

Taliesin: I'm breathing, taking aim at the wall, 

just resetting everything.

MARISHA: Can I move up behind that pillar?

MATT: Okay.

Taliesin: I'm staying far back at the moment.

MATT: So, back here.

MATT: Both of these goblins... 

I'll just say that you guys end up taking them down. 

It’s not even a question. 

You step on them and crush them.

TRAVIS: Are there any dwarves that we can say, 

“Go get Ballsack and bring him down?”

(all laugh)

MATT: You can.

LAURA: Oh yeah, Balgoos! Balgus.

MATT: Balgus? You just tell them, 

"Get Balgus!" and they are like... "Who?"

LIAM: Grab Ballsack!

MATT: Some of them have set crossbows up by the way. 

They’re barreling down to get ready to fire 

at whatever comes through. 

BOOF! Another crack in the wall. 

You can see the dust settle as the stone 

cracks again and a large piece at the top tumbles off. 

The stone wall’s probably not going to hold another impact. 

Anybody else want to move anywhere?

Taliesin: Just taking aim. 

SAM: I'll move up to the right near where Grog is. 

And nobody has taken any damage yet, right?

All: No.

MATT: Not currently, no. 

You guys have had a pretty clean sweep 

into this battle, so far.

SAM: I can't inspire anybody here? Now?

MATT: You can inspire anybody. 

Just give them a dice.

SAM: Can I inspire everyone?

MATT: You can spend all your uses to inspire as many people 

as you have the uses of it.

MARISHA: I still have mine that I haven't used yet.

SAM: I'll inspire Vex and Vax and Grog.

MATT: So, mark that you guys all have a d8 to expend on an 

attack roll, or a saving throw.

Scanlan: (singing) I think you're really handsome and nice!

You're going to have inspiration dice!

(all laugh)

TRAVIS: Thought you were gonna have a little -

LAURA: I know, some beautiful song for us!

Wait, what for all of us? We all get a d8?

MATT: Each of you has to have a single d8 dice, inspiration dice. 

The bardic inspiration is flowing through you 

that you can use to add to an attack roll, not damage. 

You can add it to an attack roll, a saving throw -

Scanlan: (plays tune on electric piano app)

(all laugh)

MATT: There you go. That’s what a shawm sounds like, apparently. 

So you can use it on attack throw, a saving throw, 

or an ability check. Any skill.

Tiberius, are you going to stay where you are, 

are you moving anywhere? 

Last chance.

ORION: Is that cover right there next to me?

MATT: Right over here? Yeah.

ORION: I'll get behind the cover.

MATT: Okay.

ORION: And I’m going to peek out and I'm gonna cast Blur.

MATT: Okay, Stoneskin goes away.

ORION: I can't do both?

MATT: Nope. They're both concentration spells.

ORION: Okay, I leave Stoneskin.

MATT: Okay, Stoneskin stays on.

At which point - (boom) - the stone breaks through 

scattering across the ground. 

You see immediately bursting through -

TRAVIS: What the fuck is that?

LAURA: What is it?

MATT: A bulbous, oversized, naga-like creature. 

You've encountered a naga before, which is a large serpentine 

creature with a humanoid head. 

However, this one is swollen, it is bulbous.

The way it moves looks unnatural 

and it has affixed to it not one, 

not three, but five other different colored naga heads 

that look to be stitched to its body.

LAURA: Gross!

MATT: It is a seriously terrible abomination. 

And as it just breaks through the stone -

(hisses and growls) 

- all the heads rear back. 

MARISHA: Do naga heads do something if you look at them?

MATT: We're beginning back at the top of the initiative order.

TRAVIS: Oh shit!

LAURA: Wait wait wait! I got a question! 

My Hunter's Mark, can I transfer it 

to that thing or do I have to -

MATT: Correct, you can, yes. 

LAURA: Yes!

MATT: Because this still part of the encounter which that.

LAURA: (Sings.) Sweet!

MATT: So that is now marked with the hunter's mark. 

Percy, you're up first.

Taliesin: Do I have to take new aim or 

can I have myself already trained on -

MATT: You've had a moment to train. 

You haven't seen the creature until it just burst out

so it would take you a round to aim.

Taliesin: I'm taking my round to aim.

MATT: Okay, so you're aiming. 

That brings us to Tiberius.

ORION: What did you just-

Taliesin: I just took aim. Took aim.

Just a gun.

MARISHA: "Just" a gun.

Taliesin: This gun doesn't do anything fancy.

Just shoots really far, really hard.

ORION: Okay! I'll do a... Scorching Ray.

MATT: Scorching Ray, all right. 

It makes a saving throw -

It does not! 

Rolled a 2, so full damage on it.

ORION: So two for four... let's shoot two of them right now, 

right, three of them?

MATT: It's an aimed ray attack?

ORION: Yeah.

MATT: Then you have to roll for the attack.

So, roll a d20 and add your -

TRAVIS: Roll high, roll high.

MATT: Top of your spell page.

LAURA: Big roll, big roll, big roll.

MATT: Top of your spell page.

ORION: Oh! That's 23.

MATT: 23? 23 hits.

ORION: Yes, okay.

MATT: All right. 

ORION: And then that's two d6… that's 12.

MATT: Twelve points of damage to the naga. 

All right. That brings us to -

ORION: Wait. I roll for the second shot, right?

MATT: Yeah.

ORION: Okay, and that's a natural 20.

(all cheer)

MATT: Okay.

Okay, so you fire one beam off - (exploding sound) - 

and it slams into the side of one of the naga heads. 

The second you bring back and as you do there's a 

flicker of arcane instability. 

His arm shakes as he releases the surge of scorching 

energy as it blasts into the side of the naga.

Also does not make a saving throw again! 

Roll full damage.

TRAVIS: Holy shit, Tiberius.

Taliesin: Oh my god.

ORION: Twelve.

MATT: Twelve?

ORION: Yeah.

MATT: Multiplied? Or did you roll a 12?

ORION: I rolled a 12.

MATT: Twelve. Times two. 24 points of damage.

ORION: Oh! I'm terrible at math! 

Stay in school, kids!

(all laugh)

MATT: All right, so it just blasts into 

the side of the naga heads.

MARISHA: This is a good time to note our charity, 826 LA.

SAM: Not yet. Don't donate yet.

SAM: Donate next week.

MATT: Next week, there's things that you can donate to then. 

All right, so that brings us to the end of Tiberius' turn. 

You want to move at all, are you staying where you are?

Tiberius: I’ll stay right here.

MATT: All right Grog's up next, you're up.

TRAVIS: Ladies first.

LAURA: Oh! Oh! Me! Okay, I'm gonna shoot - 

oh God, I didn't realise I was going so fast. 

MATT: What did you roll for stealth by the way?

LAURA: What?

MATT: What did you roll for stealth by the way?

LAURA: I rolled a 20 for stealth!

MATT: Then yeah, he has no idea you're there.

LAURA: Sweet!

MATT: He just sees the bear going - (bear growl)

LAURA: Okay. Trinket's gonna hang out because 

I don't want to - you know.

I'm going to shoot Conjure Barrage -

No, I'm just going to  shoot him twice.

MATT: All right, go for it!

LAURA: All right.

MATT: Arrow once, arrow twice - 

(arrow noises)

- Legolas style.

LAURA: I am going to do the fire arrow thingy at it. 

MATT: Okay, so using your bowstring.

LAURA: The blazing bowstring, thank you Tiberius!

MATT: That he created and crafted! 

All right so as you pull the second arrow out you nock it. 

As you let it go it bursts into flames 

arcing halfway through the air.

LAURA: Okay.

MATT: What was your to hit roll on that?

LAURA: 21?

MATT: 21 hits!

LAURA: Okay.

Oh wait, that's a -

4 plus 7 is 11.

SAM: Don't forget your inspiration!

MATT: Well inspiration dice is to hit. 

SAM: Oh, okay.

LAURA: 11.

MATT: So, 11 points of damage.

LAURA: For the first one, plus for the blazing bowstring 

I can turn any arrow into a flaming arrow, 

doing additional 10 fire damage. 

MATT: Awesome.

LAURA: So I'll roll that right now.

MATT: There you go.

LAURA: Which is this. Which is a 7!

MATT: So an additional 7, so 18 total damage and that arrow -

(impact sound) 

in the side of its body. 

One of the serpent heads reels back from the pain. 

LAURA: Yeah! Screw you, Naga!

MATT: It begins snatching at where the arrow's now protruding from it, 

trying to break it off. 

LAURA: And then I'm gonna roll again!

That's a 24!

MATT: That hits, go ahead and roll damage.

LAURA: Awesome. That's an 8.

MATT: Grog, you're on deck.

Grog: I'm ready!

LAURA: 7 plus 7 is 14!

MATT: 14 damage, all right. Both arrows -

(arrow impact sounds)

- sink into it. Definitely piercing through the scales a little bit, 

but not sticking too deeply into its body; 

it's definitely a hearty creature. 

Grog, you're up!

Grog: Right, I would like to run around the other side of the rock, 

raging, spit flying out my of my mouth!

And I would like to use the Chain of Returning,

also crafted by Tiberius, 

attach it to the end of the great axe, 

and throw it, from where I am, at the snake.

MATT: Okay.

Tiberius: Yeah!

MATT: He comes running around, rears back, 

and takes his double-handed great axe and just lobs it overhand. 

The chain, that's wrapped around your wrist, 

keeping it attached to you, in some degree. 

Go ahead and roll for the attack.

TRAVIS: 8, 9, uh, 17!

MATT: 17?

It just hits!

TRAVIS: All right, nice. That is... 15.

MATT: 15 points of damage. 

As the axe embeds itself pretty deeply into the torso.

LAURA: Oh! I didn't do my Hunter's Mark.

MATT: Roll Hunter's Mark damage right now.

LAURA: Thank you. Thank you, chatroom! 

(all laugh)

LAURA: 6!

MATT: 6? Awesome. 6 damage. All right.

TRAVIS: This says, 'An athletics-strength check is required 

to pull the weapon free, the DC12?'

MATT: So, go ahead and roll an athletics check.

TRAVIS: 12. 

MATT: Roll a d20. 

TRAVIS: Oh, a d20.

MATT: It's a DC12.

TRAVIS: Shit. Balls. Taint. 5. 

MATT: Plus...

TRAVIS: Plus what? Plus-

MATT: Plus your athletics!

TRAVIS: Oh! Oh! That's bound to be good. Uh... 7! It's 12!

MATT: 12 is the DC! So yeah!

TRAVIS: (elated laughter)

MATT: You pull back the chain and as you do, 

the blade is resisting, 

it's stuck in the torso and it actually - (whoosh) - and flies back, 

and you just barely catch it. 

Grog: Oh shit!

MARISHA: I love your joy sounds! 

Grog: Meant to do that! 

Meant to do that of course.

MATT: Now it's its turn. 

SAM: Oh Jesus. 

LAURA: Oh no!

MATT: (Slithering noises.)

LAURA: (Nervous noises.) Oh no!

Grog: Yeah, yeah, come on! 

SAM: What? Why me? No, that's not me, that's not me.

MATT: For its size, when it moves, 

it moves in a burst of lightning energy. 

It's too fast for its corpulent form.

As it goes behind to Keyleth and Tiberius, 

it makes an attack with each of its five heads. 

Two on Tiberius, three on Keyleth. 

Remember, you guys have Stoneskin, so I believe 

you have resistance against damage, right?

ORION: Oh, yes, I do.

MATT: All right. So. Against Keyleth, it's a natural 20.

Group: Oh no!

MATT: That's a 12 plus 7, that's gonna be a 19 to hit? 

MARISHA: Yeah. 

MATT: And natural 20 again.

MARISHA: What the fuck!

MATT: So, 2 critical hits, and a hit on you -

TRAVIS: What is this bullshit?

MATT: - and on Tiberius, that's a 22 to hit. 

And a 13 to hit.

ORION: One does, one does not.

MATT: Okay, cool.

MATT: So, against Keyleth, you take -

MARISHA: I'm glad I cast Stoneskin.

MATT: I know. So you take half damage for these. Which is fine.

MARISHA: Yeah.

MATT: So, you're looking at - that's 2 plus 4, that's 6, damage halved, 

you take 3 damage. 

Oh, sorry. 3 multiplied by 2 because it's a critical.

So you take 6 damage from the first strike.

LAURA: That's nothing! 6 damage.

MATT: Not too bad. You take 7 damage from the second strike,

and another 6 damage from the 3rd strike. 

Actually, it would have been 6, 4 and 6. 

Because you have resistance on the damage 'cause of Stoneskin.

MARISHA: 6, 4 and 6? 

MATT: Yes. However, make a constitution saving throw.

As venom from the fangs of the Naga begin to 

pulse into your bloodstream.

MARISHA: Ah, I should have taken the poison resistance.

He talked me out of it.

Taliesin: Yeah, I talked her out of it.

MARISHA: What am I - constitution.

MATT: Yeah, constitution saving throw.

MARISHA: Fuck!

MATT: Natural 1? 

Natural 1 on the constitution saving throw.

LAURA: Oh no!

MARISHA: It's a bad day.

MATT: You feel this burning pain pulse into your bloodstream, 

as your whole body doubles over from the pain.

SAM: Keyleth dies in episode 1.

MATT: You suffer 31 points of poison damage. 

MARISHA: 31, on top of the 6, 4 and 6?

MATT: Yep.

TRAVIS: Are you okay?

MATT: The poison damage is not halved

because it is not a physical attack on your body.

LAURA: Is Keyleth unconscious?

SAM: No, she's ok. 

MATT: Tiberius you take 13 points of damage halved by Stoneskin 

so you take a total of seven.

And also make a constitution saving throw.

What'cha got? 

ORION: It's a 16.

MATT: 16, you manage to physically resist 

the poison in your system.

You feel that slight tinge, the muscles tense,

but then your dragonborn form begins to just 

shrug off the effect of the venom.

ORION: Can I turn to him and blow fire out of my nostrils? 

MATT: Sure.

ORION: That's what I do. 

MATT: True dragonborn challenge. 

That brings us to Vax.

LIAM: Okay, I start jogging backwards. 

MARISHA: Took me down to 16 hit points. 

LIAM: And can I sneak attack while prone.

MATT: You're stealthed currently so you would 

technically get a sneak attack 

but you have to be in melee for you to get the other bonus. 

So it would be sneak attack for this damage if you were to roll 

or if you were to throw a dagger at it, 

you would get the sneak attack. 

LIAM: Okay, so that means just one throw instead of two?

MATT: You can throw both daggers at it.

LIAM: All right. I feel so inspired by Scanlan's bardic tunes -

Scanlan: (singing) Yeah!

MATT: You can add it after you make the roll by the way.

LAURA: So if you do a really good roll then you don't need it.

LIAM: Okay, 19 plus eleven is thirty.

MATT: And because you're a rogue isn't that critical for you?

LIAM: Yeah. Oh, yeah.

MATT: Two criticals! 

LIAM: And the other one, the other one is a 16 plus, plus... 

is a 26. 

MATT: That also hits. 

So you chuck both daggers out, they both arc around.

LIAM:  I meant to say I was aiming at its eye, 

the main head's eye.

LAURA: No, you should've said that first. 

MATT: For flavor it's fine. Just go ahead, it's fine.

LIAM: All right, four. 

LAURA: Four! 

LIAM: Plus seven is eleven plus five...

18. 20. 20 times... 

is 40 plus 4. 

44, that's the first dagger?

MATT: Yeah, 44 damage.

LIAM: 44. 

TRAVIS: Damn!

MATT: Rogues, man.

MARISHA: Help me. Help.

LAURA: That's just one dagger?

LIAM: That's just one- 4 plus 2 is 6.

Is that sneak attack? No.

MATT: No, only one sneak attack per turn.

LIAM: Okay. 

LAURA: 40 and then 6 on the other one.

MATT: All right, so one actually hit one of the heads, 

one of the various naga heads directly into its face. 

As it does  it goes through both and you can see it begin

reeling from the attack. 

It’s looking pretty rough actually. 

LAURA: Oh! Kill it!

MATT: You can see the stitches beginning to come apart at 

some of the seams and you can see a black ichorous liquid 

spill out from some of the suture marks.

LIAM: And just a reminder the daggers, folks, 

blink back to the belt on my waist.

(all laugh)

MATT: Because magic. 

Magic rogue shit. 

MATT: Keyleth, you're up.

LAURA: Kill him, kill him!

MARISHA: Okay, so I'm really upset, really hurting. 

So out of anger I take my staff and I go - (bam) -  

and I crack and do Thunderwave 

pushing him back 15 feet. 

MATT: All right. 

Makes the saving throw. 

But he gets pushed back, so he takes damage just half damage.

MARISHA: Okay, 2d8. 6.

MATT: As you're setting up your gun 

it gets slammed right point blank to you.

MARISHA: Oh sorry.

LAURA and TRAVIS: No that's good! 

MARISHA: It takes 4 damage.

MATT: 4 damage, all righty.

MARISHA: And then I'm going to turn into an eagle.

SAM: (laughs) As one does.

MATT: So we'll say for that, because I forgot to bring an eagle,

You're now a - (eagle sounds)

MARISHA: And I -

I fly... 

away.

TRAVIS: Away.

(all laugh)

ORION: Away.

Keyleth: Far far away.

Tiberius: Where are you going?!

LAURA: You got 4 damage, good job Keyleth.

Scanlan: Tell our story, Keyleth.

MARISHA: And then I cry in the corner and 

rock back and forth a little bit.

And that's my turn.

MATT: I forgot to mention you actually take half damage 

for the saving throw for the venom 

so you still would've taken

14 points of poison damage, so just mark that.

ORION: Okay.

MATT: It is half damage on a save.

MATT: All right, that brings us to Scanlan.

SAM: Can I bonus inspire myself?

MATT: Because you're Scanlan I'll say, yes.

(all laugh)

MATT: You have such a high opinion of yourself

that even you could inspire yourself. 

So yes, why not.

Scanlan: (singing) It would help me to acquire some dice to inspire. 

So I inspire myself first 

and move 5 feet back so I'm on the SAMe row as him.

MATT: There? 

SAM: Not that far.

MATT: There.

SAM: Yes. 

And them I'm going to cast Lightning Bolt at him.

MATT: Okay! Straight line that way? 

SAM: Straight line, that way. 

MATT: You don't have to roll to hit. 

You just roll damage on that.

I make a saving throw.

SAM: Oh! I didn't even need to inspire.

MATT: What's your DC on the spell? 

Top you your spell list.

ORION: 17.

SAM: Thank you. 

MATT: 17? That's a failure on its saving throw.

Go ahead and roll 8d6.

LAURA: 8d6?!

Kill him!

MATT: Bards. Gets spells from other classes.

TRAVIS: If you kill, I will take a shit on this table. 

SAM: 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 ,11, 12, 13, 14 -

LIAM: It's gone. 

SAM: 24!

MATT: 24 points of lightning damage.

TRAVIS: No way. 

SAM: Yes. 

MARISHA: Kill it, kill it. 

SAM: (yells, turns into a sung note)

MATT: How do you want to do this? 

(all yelling)

MARISHA: Wait, wait! Is this the first time you've -

SAM: I've never killed anything before! 

TRAVIS: Never killed anything in two years! 

LIAM: Wait, wait. 

For the people at home, we live to hear MATT say:

All: "How do you want to do this?" 

MATT: I let the player describe their victory.

So, as you sing to yourself to bolster your arcane energy, 

you release a sheer bolt of energy. 

How do you want to do this?

SAM: The bolt of lightning begins in its tail and works its way up 

through its spine, 

slowly but painfully torturing it 

as it slowly, slowly feels the effect 

coursing through its evil body. 

MATT: Because of your bardic ability to actually shape sound 

from an arcane standpoint, 

a lightning bolt should be an instant flash

of arcane energy, you actually cause it to crawl.

You control it as it begins to cascade up the torso 

of this horrible abomination. 

As it does you can see the bolts splinter and destroy 

each suture wound as each of its begins to slough off 

the rest of the torso until nothing is left but the single head 

screaming into the air. 

As the bolt makes its way up the neck, 

its eyes burst out in a blast of energy. 

MATT: And the body falls limp to the ground.

SAM: Can it have a lightning bolt shaped in an "S"?

MATT: A Scanlan shaped lightning bolt 

is burned into the torso of the strange naga beast.

(all cheer)

TRAVIS: Well done Scanlan, well done!

MATT: As the dust settles, the adrenalin still pumping 

in your system Scanlan,

all the rest of the dwarves begin stepping down, 

putting their crossbows down, looking down at the little gnome 

that created a storm from its hands and one of them 

pats him on the shoulder and goes:

Dwarf: Well - well done.

Scanlan: Thank you. Just promise me you'll tell Pike about this. 

Dwarf: Okay?

Scanlan: Because it was really cool, right? 

Dwarf: That was pretty cool.

Scanlan: Okay, good. 

MATT: All the dwarves look into the tunnel that it came from 

and the one that you spoke to earlier goes:

Dwarf: So… that's the kind of thing that's been coming out of there.

Vex: Lovely. 

Keyleth: Thanks for the heads up. 

Percy: That was really helpful. 

MATT: We'll go ahead and leave the game there for the night.

(all cheer)

MATT: All right folks, well done. 

Hope you guys had fun watching our first ever Critical Role.

That was a good time so we'll be heer next week on Thursday.

7 o'clock though.

LAURA: 7 pm.

MATT: Today was just a special early edition because 

all of Geek and Sundry is going to SXSW.

Zac: Good Job, dude.

MATT: Dude, thank you, Zac. 

Zac: This is fun, this is so much fun. 

MARISHA: Hell yeah!

Zac: This is the most fun I've had all week now 

until I die of stress behind the camera.

MATT: Good! That's good. 

Zac: So guys, I hate to end it so abruptly 

but we're actually packing up the cameras 

that are filming me now, our unit, everything, lights, 

and getting on a plane and heading to SXSW.

We may stream tomorrow, we may not, we're flying blind, 

we'll see what stuff looks like when we get there. 

But thank you guys so much and we'll be back next week, 7 pm.

MATT: 7pm.

Zac: Next week guys, it’s gonna be great. 

MATT: Thank you all for coming.




