MATT: Hello, everyone, and welcome to tonight's
episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us

nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play
Dungeons and Dragons. Tonight, picking up from a

crazy episode last week, we have Percy among us
still.

TALIESIN: Hi! Ugh, my product!

MATT: We'll get through a few announcements. One,
apparently this is the night where we all wear the

same shirt, because that happened. Also, three of
us may have gone to a CHVRCHES concert on Monday

and are obsessed with them, so there's that.
Anyway. Let's jump in here. First and foremost,

tonight is our fantastic sponsor returning as
often as they do and thank you so much, Loot Crate!

(cheering)

SAM: Loot Crate. The theme of this month is
horror. I've been dabbling in the hip-hop world

lately, so I prepared a little rap. It's pretty
street, guys.

LAURA: Oh no! No, you are not doing that right
now!

SAM: It's going to be pretty hardcore, so buckle
up. Maestro, I need a track.

[hip-hop music]

SAM: A little louder. Got to feel a jam here. My
name is MC Sammy, and I'm here to say, I love Loot

Crate in a major way. Their boxes are fly and full
of loot. You'll feel real dope and that's no bull

shoot! Yeah! (record scratch) I'm funky fresh, a
real hip-hopper and we got a discount to save you

some copper. If you use our code you can save
three bucks! And if you don't, I don't give a fu--

beatbox break down. (beat boxing)

(laughter)

SAM: There's more.

TRAVIS: I have the hiccups!

SAM: So in conclus-- oh.

(laughter)

SAM: So in conclusion, listen up, G, I'm down with
Loot Crate and with OPP. Their swag is the bomb,

and their threads rocks. You want horror? It's in
the box! Word!

LAURA: Wow!

MATT: Thank you, Sam!

SAM: Sure.

LAURA: That made me sweat.

SAM: Man. That went really well.

MATT: That did not at all send hip-hop back to
1991.

MARISHA: I think I saw that in my D.A.R.E. class.

(laughter)

MATT: Thank you, Loot Crate, for allowing us, week
after week, to have Sam do this. Thank you. Thank

you, Sam.

SAM: Also, lootcrate.com/criticalrole now goes to
a custom Critical Role page within lootcrate.com,

and you should check it out. Love you all. Word to
your mama.

(laughter)

MATT: All righty! Next up on the list.

LIAM: I knew this episode would start in tears.

(laughter)

MATT: It hasn't even started yet! Laura, do you
want to talk about merch stuff coming up here?

LAURA: Merch stuff coming up?

MATT: Preorders are still going?

LAURA: Yeah, preorders for the hoodies are still
going on, aren't they? How about that, guys?

They're still happening. You can still order those
for I think a whole other week. No? Am I wrong?

I'm stroking out so hard. For another week!

MARISHA: Continuing the 1991 trend.

MATT: All right. The next thing we want to
mention, as 'tis the season of Halloween, we are

announcing tonight, leading up to the end of the
month, we're having a Critical Role Halloween

costume contest. If any of you guys are dressing
up as anything Critical Role related whatsoever,

go ahead and tweet it at us or Instagram it at us
with the hashtag #CriticalCostumes. Together, one

word. #CriticalCostumes. We'll have a winner and a
runner-up. Prizes are to be determined. Sam is

dead-set on giving away a bunch of his old shirts.
That might be one of them. We'll figure it out.

TALIESIN: It's going to be a Halloween treat.

LAURA: We don't know what we're doing yet.

MARISHA: No. I also didn't tell Geek and Sundry we
were doing this.

MATT: This isn't a Geek and Sundry contest. This is
our contest. We are doing this with you guys.

We'll be figuring out prizes. Yeah.
#CriticalCostumes. You'll have to the end of the

month up until Halloween proper. We shall
determine a winner and runner-up. Excited to see

what you guys do.

Laura and Travis, you want to talk about another
episode of another project you guys are working on?

TRAVIS: I will! We're both in Telltale's the
Batman series, which is great. Laura plays

Catwoman. I play Harvey Dent. Episode two released
last week or the week before. I think it was last

week. It's really great. It's on major consoles,
PS4, Xbox One. You can get it on your phone now,

too, so check it out and watch us be a part of the
Batman rogues' gallery. Yeah. And save Harvey Dent.

Don't worry about Catwoman. She's a piece of cat
poop.

MATT: There you have it.

LIAM: That's a line straight from the game!

TRAVIS: You can look forward to that kind of
writing.

LAURA: In addition, though, to Batman: The
Telltale Series, Gears of War is launching on the

11th. We just did a big live event yesterday.
Gears of War 4. If you got the Ultimate Edition,

you can download it and you can play it early. As
in, tonight. Which, you shouldn't do. You should

be watching us. But you could do it after you're
done watching us.

TRAVIS: It's pretty sweet. I played it a bunch.
It's really great.

MATT: That's fantastic.

MARISHA and TALIESIN: War harder.

MATT: Other couple of announcements. Really
amazing isometric RPG that me and few of you guys

have worked on. Liam, you worked on it. Sam, did
you work on Masquerada?

SAM: Which?

MATT: Masquerada?

SAM: Nope!

MATT: Nope! Me and Liam worked on Masquerada. It
came out last week on Steam, and I believe it will

be available on consoles later in the year. It's a
great story, incredibly well-written, fantastic cast.

LIAM: Matt is very fancy in it.

MATT: Yes! I highly recommend it. I'm really proud
of the game. If you like really good narrative

stories and great character development, I highly
recommend it. Check out Masquerada on Steam.

Coming up towards the end of this month, too,
Titanfall 2.

LAURA: Your trailer looks so good!

MATT: I play the protagonist in the single-player
mode. You should check it out. You get to have a

fun buddy cop experience with me and your titan.
Check that out in a few weeks, guys.

LIAM: That's all I'm allowed to say. I also play a
guy. Yeah. Okay. That's it.

LAURA: That's as far it gets right now.

TRAVIS: We're basically in all the video games,
you guys.

SAM: I'm not in that one, apparently.

TALIESIN: Apparently not.

SAM: Yeah, well, Matt, are you in Blue Robot 13?
Yeah. Are you in Verdant Lightning? Yeah.

LAURA: Are those real games?

SAM: No, they're not real.

TALIESIN: They could've been, though. I was
nodding like, yeah, Verdant Lightning. I have that.

MATT: Couple of other quick announcements. Me and
Taliesin, not this weekend but the weekend after,

will be in New Hampshire at Another Anime Con.
We'll be doing panels and signings and fun stuff

there. Those of you guys in that vicinity, come
say hello to us. Bring things and books to sign

and bring questions for our panels, because we
will be lonely otherwise. (German accent) And it

would be a great time to meet you, and make your
way to Another Anime Convention. We'll see you there.

TALIESIN: (German accent) We'll be doing these
accents--

SAM: That's your New Hampshire accent?

MATT: (German accent) That's what they sound like
in New Hampshire, is that correct? (normal voice)

Last but not least, guys, please don't forget to
vote.

TALIESIN: Register!

LAURA: Register to vote! You've still got some
time.

MARISHA: And then vote.

MATT: Deadlines for most states are coming up
pretty soon. California has until October 24th as

the deadline to register. Please register so you
can go out and vote. It's so important, you guys.

Oh my god. Seriously, we're living in an Orwellian
fantasy right now. Please vote.

MARISHA: We'll be there, waiting in lines at
public schools just like everybody else.

TRAVIS: Yeah, we're going to come to the line that
you would go to if you vote because we know which

ones you're going to be at. We'll shake your hand.
We're going to be there for each one of you.

Individually. Like Santa Claus.

MATT: Travis will be there at each individual one
at the speed of light.

TALIESIN: My voting center actually has a tank out
front that's a National Guard center that we play

on the tank. There'll be a picture of me with a
tank later.

MARISHA: That's cool!

TALIESIN: Yeah, it's nice.

MATT: Unless we have any other announcements, I
think it's time to bring us down to tonight's

episode of Critical Role.

[dramatic music]

MATT: Hello, and welcome back. So! Picking up
where we last left off. Vox Machina, our band of

adventurers, had been collecting the Vestiges of
Divergence, a series of artifacts to prepare for

their coming encounter with Thordak the Cinder
King and the rest of the Chroma Conclave, a group

of evil, ancient dragons that banded together to
tear across and dominate the Tal'Dorei

countryside.

During their most recent journey, they were
tailing a competitive group searching for these

same artifacts led by a forgotten villain of the
past known as Dr. Ripley. They were led into a

trap, and a heavy battle took place, one that
claimed the life of Percival. The party retrieved

his body, took it back to Whitestone, and through
a series of very lucky rolls and imploring his

soul to return, once freeing it from the devouring
jaws of Orthax the shadow demon, he was restored

to life.

Celebration was short-lived thus far. After an
evening's rest, they were asked by their old ally,

Seeker Asum, to meet them upstairs in Castle
Whitestone in the war room for a very important

meeting. Upon arriving around the central table,
Asum revealed himself to actually be Raishan, the

green dragon and member of the Chroma Conclave
that you had not seen since the original attack on

Emon, and left you last with the bombshell and bit
of information that Raishan's here to make an

alliance and as you are, as well, Raishan is
interested in the destruction and downfall of

Thordak, the Cinder King.

And that's where we're going to pick up. Having
just revealed through the somewhat transformed

eyebrows, eyes, and upper face of the hairless,
tattooed and scarred side head of Seeker Asum, you

can see the reptilian green scales billow out and
become glowing yellowish reptilian eyes peeking

through. The voice modulates into more of a
deeper, but thin, reedy hiss after Asum looks to

you all as Raishan and says, "I wish to kill the
Cinder King. Now, do you accept my alliance?"

LAURA: That's it? We're just supposed to trust
you?

MATT: "No! I assumed you'd ask questions. I'm an
open book. What do you require?"

LIAM: Why in the fuck should we trust you?

MATT: "You shouldn't, to be perfectly honest. I am
a being that rides the line between what's true

"and what's false, and I know your research has
spoken the same. However, strange circumstances

"make for strange bedfellows. And circumstances as
they are, I think you have very little choice, as

"do I."

LIAM: What do you claim your motives to be?

MATT: "Listen for a moment, and I'll tell you a
bit about the history of this green dragon before you.

"My home is south of here within the jungles of
the Rifenmist Peninsula along the southern side of

"the Stormcrest. That is where I met the Cinder
King nearly two decades ago. He encroached upon my

"territory. We battled then, an exhausting struggle
over days. Thordak is keen of eye, however, and

"older than I. He held his assault. He saw me, and
he saw my disease.

"I was cursed a half-century ago, when I
infiltrated and toppled a temple of Melora that

"was being built by a high druid for her roving
peons. As I consumed her last follower, broke the

"druid upon her altar, she gave her dying breath to
spite me. This sickness that she imparted was

"merely an inconvenience, but as the years wore on,
it spread and worsened.

"I left my pursuits of base interests and began to
obsess over a cure for this before it took me. I

"burned through servant after servant to find
anything on such a disease. Everything failed.

"Everything.

"Thordak somehow noted and recognized my ailment.
He said, 'You are unwell. A rare malady upon you.

"'It will claim you, in time. However, I've traveled
the world, I've gathered many secrets, and I know

"'how to be rid of it. To burn it out of your
system with a fire you will never find. I've done

"'it before. I can burn away the worst of
illnesses.'

"Now, I am a creature that can pierce any lie by
nature. I know in my heart that he spoke the truth

"that day, that dragon. When asked what he wanted
in return, he said, 'Your servitude.' We made an

"agreement. He would return once he marked his
domain. We discussed the terms.

"However, he did not return. I grew furious and
sought answers only to find that he was brought

"low and sealed away by some assembled others, some
fools from Emon. It took me years of seeking, but

"I found his whereabouts. I was not going to let my
chance to strike away this bloody curse slip from

"me, so I met him on the fire plane. Over the
years, I saw his swelling, his pained form. He

"spoke of plans, ideas for vengeance and
domination, but he would not relinquish the

"secrets he promised me until I released him.

"I proposed the Conclave. I assembled the others.
I negotiated the agreements. I corrupted the

"binding stone. I prepared the Pyrah gate. I did
everything!

"As time went on, Thordak's clarity muddled. It
seemed his bindings, the power that he was

"absorbing, was beginning to drive him mad, so we
did not have any more time. I needed to initiate

"the escape before he lost enough to forget our
agreement, the means to even fulfill his side of

"the bargain. No celestial solstice as planned, but
Winter's Crest would have to do. And with Thordak

"freed, the Conclave assembled, Tal'Dorei was
razed, divided, and won.

"But Thordak still withheld his words. He laughs
at my requests. I see now that he does not mean to

"tell me, and never really did, as his mind began
to go. He enjoys his seat of power over all of

"you, over me. I want him dead! I want to watch
him be torn apart, I want to see his eyes go cold

"and in that very moment, I want to call his spirit
back and bind his word to tell me how I can save

"myself. And then laugh at his misfortune as I tear
what's left of him.

"That is why I come to you. I have not the power
to take him myself."

MARISHA: Thordak will experience all of those
things. He will burn and he will suffer and you

will not be there to watch it happen.

LAURA: Keyleth?

MARISHA: You want to feel the burning inside of
you? Oh, you will feel it, Raishan. But it will

not be from Thordak or whatever proposed cure he
made up. The burning you feel will be from the

souls of ten thousand Fire Ashari as they sear your
flesh, and the last thing that you will see will

be my face as I watch you suffer, as you watched
a quarter of my civilization burn!

MATT: "Child, I commend your bravery in the face
of certain doom, but think before you give in to

"such base passions. There is much to be gained by
us working together, and so much more to be lost."

MARISHA: Oh, you commend me for bravery? Oh,
Raishan, for someone who is supposed to be so

smart-- I am not afraid! I know what you are. You
are a parasite. You walk around calling yourself a

magnificent ancient dragon. You are nothing more
than a leech. You consumed the energy of my people

for years! And we're supposed to just trust you?

MATT: "Child, your anger is misplaced--"

MARISHA: (shouting) Call me child one more goddamn
time!

TRAVIS: I move behind Keyleth.

MATT: "I did not slay a single one of your people.
Thordak's release destroyed the top of that

"mountain--"

MARISHA: (shouting) Which you did! You unleashed
the mad dog, you bitch! This is your fucking

fault! (quieter) He's just a mad king. As you said
so yourself, you're the master planner! But your

plan backfired, didn't it? So now you've come to
us, and you think that you can formulate some

other master plan that's still going to somehow
get you what you want! You dumb fool. When will

you fucking learn?

MATT: "Keyleth."

MARISHA: Raishan.

MATT: "Do not mistake my grace in this room for
need of conflict, nor foolhardy wishes. If I

"wanted each one of you dead, I would be chewing on
your bones right now."

TALIESIN: I think, perhaps, if I may be so bold as
to tidy up what Keyleth is trying to drive home

here, is that for all intents and purposes from
this side of the table, you strike me as a

desperate creature who's pretending that he has a
choice to be here and has brought-- she, excuse

me. That is another conversation. You've brought
very little to the table. We are not impressed

with your notions that somehow we can work
together. You need us, and this is all you bring?

MATT: "I bring information--"

TALIESIN: (scoffs)

MATT: "I bring knowledge of Thordak--"

TALIESIN: Where is Asum?

MATT: "I know where Asum is--"

TALIESIN: Where is Asum?

LIAM: Let's start with that.

TALIESIN: Let's stop pretending you have a choice
here.

MATT: "The one you call Seeker Asum is alive, in
Emon, still working amongst the Clasp. The story I

"gave you was mostly truth, peppered with necessary
deceit to place me here amongst you for the time I

"needed. He is there to secure survivors against
Thordak.

"I infiltrated the ranks of the Clasp, gained his
trust, which allowed me to find your whereabouts,

"and so I came. He sent me on a mission to notify
you of his plans, which, by the way, along with

"Brotoras, Goldhand, and the Clasp's cooperation,
they have a plan to strike at the Cinder King."

LIAM: Insight check. Well, hold on. No. 13. Never
mind.

MATT: Slippery dragon.

(laughter)

MATT: There's no reason for you to believe or
disbelieve. It's just words to you right now.

LIAM: Yeah.

LAURA: What's their plan?

MATT: "One that'll fail, of course. You see, they
put their knowledge in what a red dragon is

"capable of. They believe that by quelling the
flames or stoking some nature of the crystal in

"its belly's magic, there would be a way to stop
him. And there is a path to be taken there, yes,

"but their knowledge is faulty. They don't
understand the nature of the enchantment, and

"should they attack, they will burn in the flames
of their own righteousness."

LAURA: What's your illness?

MATT: "I wish I knew the extent of it--" And you
watch as Asum's form grows a little more green in

places, the scales unfolding, and as the image,
though still in the halfling form, where the

scales rest you can see a series of deep,
purplish-black veins that ride up the side of the

throat, and across the chest and the arms, and
they pulse with each heartbeat. "It withers my

"constitution. It makes me weary. I've sat with
this for nearly a hundred years. My brain is not

"dull, but I wish not to have this brilliant
intellect waste away into ash because I couldn't

"find an answer."

LAURA: So you come before us and you tell us
you're weak?

MATT: "Well, weak by my standards."

MARISHA: You're weak by mine, too.

LIAM: If we were to work with you, and that is a
massive fucking if, if we were to work with you

and Thordak were to fall-- Paint us a picture,
what can we look forward to after that? What

happens to you, where do you go, what happens to
Tal'Dorei?

MATT: "I have no interest in this mass domination.
Most of these petty creatures that you call your

"brethren, they live amongst their cities, and
that's fine. My happiness lies in returning to my

"home in the Rifenmist, where I can pillage the
eastern and southern coasts. Or I can ride out

"amongst the Viridian Ocean and steal what is
necessary to survive and enjoy my network of

"followers and spies. Far away from where you
live."

LIAM: You might as well be feeding us nursery
rhymes.

MARISHA: Sounds like a life happily ever after.

MATT: "If you're uncomfortable with my proximity,
post the fall of the king, I will happily take my

"presence elsewhere. Gather my people, my
belongings, and find a roost, somewhere across the

"Ozmit perhaps."

TALIESIN: I'm comfortable with that being a
conversation that happens later.

LAURA: Well, obviously, but I don't believe
anything she says.

TRAVIS: You're sure that Thordak has a cure for
you?

MATT: "I have spent many years trying to untangle
what could be the lie behind those eyes, and I am

"certain. There is a confidence with knowing and
withholding. It is stronger than the strongest of

"bluffs, and I've seen that confidence in the
Cinder King. A cruelty in that knowledge, that

"smugness."

LAURA: Is he still insane?

MATT: "By most standards, has been for some time,
but it continues to slip. His narcissism grows to

"dangerous bounds."

TRAVIS: What about the white dragon?

TALIESIN: Before we would consider any terms, we
would need the white dragon removed from the

playing field.

MARISHA: Could be a good way for you to show us
your loyalty, even though you have none. But know,

Raishan, whatever deal we strike does not end in
you leaving my sight. You're going to die. You're

going to die, even if I have to die doing it.

MATT: "Amusing."

TALIESIN: Really, this is a conversation about
whether or not we wait to try and kill you until

before or after the Cinder King. That's fair, I
think.

MATT: "You think that because you took surprise
upon Umbrasyl, the brute, his inferior intellect,

"that you will have the opportunity to strike me
down? You have no idea what I'm capable of, no

"matter what malady festers within me."

TALIESIN: Oh, we know.

MATT: "This is your home, right, Percival?"

TALIESIN: It is.

MATT: "It would be a shame for it to suddenly no
longer exist."

MARISHA: Can we please just fucking kill her now?

TALIESIN: I'm not Keyleth. Your threats, they
won't bend me, because I believe you. I believe

that you would rend this entire city asunder.
That's why I'm at the table. I am conscious of

where we are, I'm conscious of who you are, and
I'm conscious of what you need. I'm just trying to

make sure that everybody's clear that the minute
that red dragon dies, all bets are off. You know

it as well as I do. And you should be wary,
because only one side of this table is

underestimating the other.

TRAVIS: Which side is it?

TALIESIN: Thank you, Grog.

SAM: Can I do a perception check to make sure that
this being is actually in the room and is not just

some sort of phantom?

LAURA: We've seen this before.

SAM: 17. Oh wait, am I proficient? No, 19.

MATT: 19, okay. The entity you see before you does
appear to be physically present, to the best of

your knowledge. No one's touched it or attempted
to, but it does seem to be present with you.

TRAVIS: All right, I love a good story, so do you have
a plan?

TALIESIN: One step at a time. White dragon.

MATT: "Vorugal is a beast. Simple of mind. Eager
to kill, eat, sleep. That's about the extent. As

"long as it's given enough land and cattle to
devour, it seems happy. It enjoys the hunt; it

"enjoys the challenge."

TALIESIN: How willing do you feel to be a
participant in his demise?

LIAM: A lot better if you'd be willing to shed a
bit of blood.

TALIESIN: Get your hands dirty.

MARISHA: Oh, she's already done that.

MATT: "Our agreement, should this go forward, does
not end when the Cinder King dies. I demand the

"opportunity to converse with the spirit from the
corpse.

"Once that's done, then you may pull your rug out
from under me, if you will. I wish you the best of luck."

TALIESIN: Well, I assume once he's dead, either
you'll turn on us or you'll run away. Either way

works for me.

LIAM: Yeah, we're getting a bit ahead of
ourselves. Are you going to scrap with the white

dragon with us or not?

LAURA: Can you talk him into flying off, leaving
everyone alone?

TALIESIN: No, I want a dead dragon.

MATT: "You see, whereas I have the aptitude to
know where my alliances stand, Vorugal is, of the

"entire Conclave, the closest Thordak has to a lap
dog."

LAURA: So dead, then.

MATT: "Probably the best bet, yes."

TALIESIN: Yes, Grog?

TRAVIS: I have a question. Do you want to talk to
Thordak's dead spirit, or are you after the big

shiny jewel in the middle of his chest?

MATT: "I have no interest in whatever enchantment
shackles him to his insanity. I merely wish to

"draw from him the secret I've been promised."

TRAVIS: Insight check to see if he's lying.

LAURA: Ditto!

MATT: Insight check, both of you guys, go.

LAURA: Oh, that was terrible!

TRAVIS: 18.

LAURA: Ugh, 13.

MATT: Seems to be telling the truth.

TRAVIS: Yeah, sure.

LAURA: Well, yeah, sure she does.

TRAVIS: He's telling the truth.

LAURA: She.

TRAVIS: She's telling the truth.

TALIESIN: Once the white dragon's off the board,
then we will hammer out whatever promises can be

made, but until then, there's just many players on
the field to say one way or another.

LAURA: Have you been here as Asum this whole time?
What have you been doing?

MATT: "Gathering information, like I do."

LAURA: What do you do, sleep in his room like a
halfling?

TRAVIS: Yeah, do you wear his clothes, and use his
soap, and brush with his toothbrush?

MATT: "No, I moved down to the stables and found a
soft bit of hay. Yes, I sleep in his bed and his clothes."

TRAVIS: That's a lot of attitude to what I feel is
a simple question. It's gross.

MARISHA: It's pretty gross.

TALIESIN: It must be so humiliating for you that
you need to turn to us for help. You do have my

pity in that regard.

MATT: "It isn't the most optimal circumstance, but
I think we both have much to gain."

MARISHA: Why do you think Thordak is the only one with
knowledge of a cure?

MATT: "Because everywhere I've sought the
information seems to have been destroyed by

"Thordak once we made the accord."

LAURA: If you tell us what the disease is--

MARISHA: Because that puny little druid that
cursed you-- well, don't forget you're dealing

with a puny little druid right here.

MATT: "You could take a look if you like, but I
myself do not know its nature."

LAURA: Have you tried Greater Restoration?

(laughter)

MARISHA: That seems to be the solution to all of
our problems.

TALIESIN: It's the chicken soup of Dungeons and
Dragons.

MARISHA: Chicken soup for the DND soul.

LIAM: It's feed a curse, starve perma-death.

TRAVIS: Please, go ahead.

MATT: "Yes, I have."

MARISHA: What was the question?

MATT: "I've tried all forms of cleansing magic.
I've bent many diviners to my aid, and all have

"failed! This isn't a simple magic, this was a
spirit curse, this was something far more

"powerful."

TRAVIS: Sounds like a job for me. (spits) Come
on.

TALIESIN: You don't have to.

MATT: "I don't want to."

TRAVIS: Spit smells funny, you know.

TALIESIN: Is it two days until the white dragon?

LAURA: How long do we have?

TRAVIS: Wait, will Thordak know if we do something
to Vorugal?

TALIESIN: Of course.

MATT: "It's likely. Very quickly, yes."

TRAVIS: Why?

MATT: "Keeps a close watch on his subjects. He's
paranoid. Requires us to continuously

"check in, which I have been."

LAURA: You've been checking in from where? Here?

MATT: "I have my means in my room, yes."

LAURA: Does he know where you are?

MATT: "No. As far as he knows, I'm currently
somewhere on the outskirts of Westruun attempting

"to forge some sort of vengeance for what happened
to Umbrasyl."

TALIESIN: If he did find out he was here, it would
be very easy to turn the two of them against each

other.

LAURA: So when Vorugal flew over... did he not
sense you?

MATT: "I'm very good at avoiding the sight of
those who would seek me if I wish not to be seen."

LAURA: Was he seeking you, or was he seeking
Whitestone?

MATT: "Based on the correspondence that was put
out by Thordak, he was very perturbed at the death

"of the black dragon that you've slain. As such,
sent a rather large assortment of his and

"Vorugal's wyvern army to sweep the entire middle
eastern side of Tal'Dorei in search of you, I

"presume.

"Thankfully, your allies put up some sort of
illusory barrier, which I did not disturb during

"that time, to whatever consolation that is to our
agreement."

TALIESIN: It is of great consolation. In fact, I
would go so far as to say that I am willing to say

that these talks will continue post the
destruction of the white dragon, so long as these

talks take place in Whitestone.

LAURA: We won't have much time to talk after the
destruction of the white dragon.

TALIESIN: We'll have enough. And if there is no
Whitestone to hold talks in, there will be no talks.

MATT: "This is true."

SAM: One moment. Game this out for me, friends. If
this is all bullshit and Thordak has sent this

little lady here to trick us into traveling with
her to Draconia, where Thordak is lying in wait to

kill us the second we get there, well, then if
we're making a deal for this little lady to kill

on our behalf, why do we need to go? Can we just
stay in Whitestone and you go kill the white

dragon for us? You're powerful, aren't you? Why do
you need us?

MATT: "You see, if I were to utilize my full
potential, which would be required to fell

"Vorugal-- as idiotic as the creature is, it's
still a very dangerous and cunning foe."

LIAM: Not for you. You're so clever.

SAM: Yeah, you can pretend to be Vorugal's--
something, pet hamster-- for a while until you

kill him in his sleep.

MATT: "Maybe I overestimated your intelligence,
but in doing so, would immediately paint a target

"on my back for Thordak. I think it's best that I
remain in his good graces, as we all flank up

"unexpectedly when the time is right."

TALIESIN: He is correct.

MATT: "She!"

TALIESIN: I'm really enjoying that.

TRAVIS: I would also say that if she wanted to set
a trap with three dragons on us, they would all be

here right now.

TALIESIN: Also, they could've avoided it entirely
and waited for us to go to Draconia, as opposed to

having someone come by to remind us that we were
going to Draconia in the first place. It seems

like an awful lot of work.

MARISHA: I still don't really know why we need her
to begin with. We're powerful enough. Why don't we

just kill her now?

TALIESIN: Honestly? Because it would damage the
castle.

TRAVIS: No, don't provoke--

SAM: What is that move? Don't do that.

MARISHA: Are you inviting?

MATT: "I'm saying the choice is yours. Either we
work together, or you all fall."

TRAVIS: Come on. Even my simple mind sees the
advantages here.

LIAM: Keyleth. All we're debating is the order in
which they die.

MARISHA: She was first on my list.

TALIESIN: I don't recommend lists. The only reason
I'm stopping you from doing this-- and I swear

this is the truth-- is because this is my home.

MARISHA: But this could be our best chance.

TALIESIN: There would be nothing left.

MARISHA: Could be the easiest--

MATT: "Half-elf. Look at me. Your worldview is
clouded by optimism that does not belong in

"Exandria. There is good, there is evil, but this
world has been remade many times because life is

"destruction. You should know this as a purveyor of
life in its own right. The cycle lives on. The

"chaos perseveres. Everything grows, eats, then
dies or is eaten. You can put whatever fine

"dressing on it you like."

LIAM: Yeah, shut the fuck up, sick bag.

MARISHA: She's not making this easy to walk away,
you guys!

LIAM: Percy is right. We don't want the
people of Whitestone to fall like the people of

the Ashari.

LAURA: More deaths do not make it right, Keyleth.

TRAVIS: You're going to get yours. You're going to
get it.

MATT: "Are you telling me you have not claimed a
life or two in your time? Do you think your goals

"and your attempts to save those close to you have
not been wrought with bloodshed?"

MARISHA: Oh, I know the consequences of every step
of my actions. It is you, Raishan, who did not

realize the biggest consequence is standing in
front of you right now.

MATT: "Do you think you have not stepped on an
anthill to get to your destination?"

MARISHA: I don't give a flying shit.

MATT: "I merely stepped on an anthill to get to
mine."

LIAM: You're just fucking winding her up, man.

MATT: "Understand, there are different levels of
thought, intellect, and intent here. I come to you

"because we have much to gain together. Or lose
everything by not listening to what I have to say."

TALIESIN: You will join us in the fight against
the white dragon.

MATT: "I will, if you promise to let Thordak's
soul be mine."

TALIESIN: Nope, that's not the deal.

LIAM: We're talking about a second round of
negotiations.

TALIESIN: We will consider your offer once the
white dragon is dead, not a minute before.

MATT: "This isn't a negotiation."

TALIESIN: This is everything of a negotiation, you
fool.

MATT: "What am I getting out of this?"

TALIESIN: Your life!

SAM: An opportunity to prove yourself to us.

TALIESIN: A cure to yourself.

LAURA: A chance to take down Thordak. You said
yourself you can't do it on your own.

LIAM: We haven't danced with a dragon that now
stands breathing.

TALIESIN: Your desperation is so obvious.

MARISHA: We walk away, and you die. Or we stay,
(whispering) and you die.

MATT: "If I aid you with the tearing of Vorugal as
a show of goodwill, in response, you keep my true

"nature secret between those in this room."

TRAVIS: Oh. Yeah.

MATT: "You maintain that I have access to the
length and breadth of Whitestone."

TRAVIS: Wait a minute. Why the length and bread of
Whitestone?

MATT: "Largely because I have interests in
deciding my plan against Thordak. Let's just say

"some of it may include a trinket or two that have
come in your way on your travels."

TRAVIS: Are you fully aware of what lies beneath
Whitestone?

MATT: "I have some ideas."

TALIESIN: Would you like to see it?

MATT: "I have seen it already."

TALIESIN: Have you?

LAURA: You've been down there?

MATT: "I've been here for some time, my dear."

LAURA: Then why didn't we meet down there? Why are
you so scared of it?

TRAVIS: Yeah, if you've seen it, tell us what it
is.

MARISHA: I know. You know.

TALIESIN: Of course he--

SAM: You say it first.

MATT: "I'm not telling you anything. That was not
part of the negotiation."

TRAVIS: How big is it? If you've seen it.

(laughter)

SAM: Describe it.

TALIESIN: One dead white dragon and then--

MARISHA: Oh jeez, what is that?

MATT: Raishan snaps her fingers. You see a spark,
and you notice a brief burst akin to a minor

illusion. No sound, nothing, just the image of a
tiny black orb.

TRAVIS: Shit! She's seen it.

TALIESIN: One dead white dragon, and then the
negotiations continue. We will speak to no one of

what you truly are, although we may caution others
that we're looking a bit sideways at Seeker Asum.

MATT: "I would recommend none of that. Any
suspicion means I'm being followed. If I'm

"followed and feeling threatened, the person you
told may not survive. We do not want that, but I'm

"going to look out for myself, so anyone you tell,
you're putting in danger."

TALIESIN: That's also fair.

MARISHA: Anyone you touch, you're then putting
yourself in danger. If any of our friends wind up

dead, we're looking at you first.

MATT: "Fair enough."

LAURA: Have you done anything with the rest of our
friends?

MARISHA: Where's Asum? Did we already cover that?

LAURA: Yeah, we already covered that.

MARISHA: I was very angry. I couldn't hear a whole
lot.

TALIESIN: Whitestone will not fall. If Whitestone
falls, all deals are off. If Whitestone is

attacked, all deals are off. You keep it off the
radar.

MATT: "It's already off the radar. I just will not
touch the radar."

TALIESIN: That'll do.

LIAM: What is radar?

MATT: "I don't know."

TALIESIN: Do you never go into my room? Do you
never look at what I'm working on?

SAM: What room are we in right now?

MATT: This is the old war room, which is upstairs
facing the front.

LAURA: The old war room, because we moved the new
one down into the ziggurat and she didn't respect that!

MATT: Nope.

MARISHA: (whispers) Bitch.

LIAM: I said (singing) bitch.

SAM: How big is the room?

MATT: It's about, I'd say-- close to 30 feet by 60
feet.

SAM: How many entrances?

MATT: There's two doors that enter, and then two
windows that face out the front.

LAURA: Are you going to attack her all of a
sudden? Are you going to attack her right now?

SAM: We should probably kill her right now.

MARISHA: I agree with that! Can I do a scan of the
room, like a perception check to see if I notice

magical traps or anything weird set up?

MATT: Make an investigation check.

MARISHA: Investigation?

MATT: If you're looking for traps, it's
investigation.

MARISHA: No, is there anything off? Does it look
like there's an opening?

MATT: Make a general perception check.

TRAVIS: We can kill her whenever. Might as well
use her.

MARISHA: General perception? 21.

MATT: 21? Glancing about the room, it does not
appear to have anything that you notice different.

It has the two banners on the side walls. It has
the table in the center with some chairs scattered

about and there's the two windows opposite. One
window that currently Raishan has to her back.

LIAM: I don't think Scanlan is wrong. I think he
is weak.

LAURA: Why?

SAM: It.

LIAM: However, she will try to destroy as much as
possible out of spite in her death throes.

TALIESIN: Thus also exposing the city. We will be
attacked. That will be the end of Whitestone.

TRAVIS: I walk up very gingerly to Keyleth, and I
grab one of her antlers very gently, and I say:

Look, if you want to go, we're with you, but if
you exercise a little patience, I think we'll get

more out of this, and you'll still get yours in
the end.

MARISHA: Is Grog talking to me about patience
right now?

LAURA: That's very important.

MARISHA: That's so extreme.

TRAVIS: Don't get me wrong, I want to crack it
open right now, but we'll get more later.

LIAM: He's learned a lot.

MARISHA: Grog--

TALIESIN: I guarantee you, the complete lack of
satisfaction that you feel when she's finally dead

will be just as potent two days from now.

MARISHA: Did Thordak tell you about the trinkets
of ours that you wanted?

MATT: "Thordak has no idea what lies beneath this
city. Thordak is too obsessed with himself."

MARISHA: About what we have, I mean.

MATT: "Are you referring to your Vestiges?"

MARISHA: She knows.

MATT: "You already told me everything. You
informed me of your entire journey."

LAURA: I know, okay! Because we're really smart
and we totally--

SAM: We knew it was you all along. We want you to
know what you're up against.

LAURA: That's right.

MATT: "Of course you did."

LIAM: Taunting you all along.

MARISHA: We thought she was Asum. We talked, and
she knows. She knows. We told her everything. What

does he want?

MATT: "What does Thordak want? Thordak wants
everything. Everything. Thordak is using the

"crystal in his belly to slowly build a volcano
beneath Emon. To turn the surrounding city and the

"countryside into a new mountain of his visage."

LAURA: How long until that happens?

MATT: "That's going to be another hundred years
before the entire mountain is complete, but the

"physicality is already adjusting. The molten rock
begins to swirl and flow beneath the Cloudtop

"District."

TRAVIS: Wait, you said he's building a volcano?

MATT: "Well, the volcano is being summoned beneath
him. Such is the nature of the crystal he carries.

"The energy he absorbed from the fire elemental
plane carried over with him, and it's still

"hungry. It's why he swells; that's why he's in
pain. But he just laughs amidst it, as it also

"gives him extreme power and nigh
invulnerability."

TRAVIS: And you said you knew Thordak before he
was trapped in the elemental plane. Was he, in any

way, on what is now known as Glintshore before the
elemental plane?

MATT: "It's possible. I have no knowledge of this
Glintshore."

LIAM: What do you know about the Briarwoods?

MATT: "I don't think I know anything about some
Briarwoods."

LIAM: Really? What do you think about the wall
surrounding that beach ball down there? It's a

little creepy down there, isn't it?

MATT: "It's a little off-putting, yes."

LIAM: You expect us to believe you know nothing,
as smart as you are, you know nothing of what

happened there in the months past.

MATT: "I know what I've been told."

LIAM: Are you sure you're not trying to summon
something awful out of that marble?

MATT: "Do you think I wish to have another
creature that I pay subservience to?"

LAURA: No.

TRAVIS: Maybe if he can heal you.

LAURA: Is Melora an enemy of Vecna? Do we know
that?

MATT: Essentially, Melora is the goddess of the
wilderness and the sea. Very nature, life,

elemental-based deity. Vecna is not a god. Vecna
was very powerful, wanted to become a god and was

balked and scattered, supposedly destroyed a long
time ago but the cults still endure and infiltrate

and wander various parts of Exandria.

LIAM: What do you want to do with that thing?

MATT: "It pertains to what I think is a sound plan
to bring Thordak down to our level."

LIAM: Well, tell me a little bit more.

MATT: "I will tell you, once we finish this next
length of your journey, since you are so eager to

"have made the agreement."

LAURA: Makes sense.

LIAM: I think you're lying through your teeth. I
think you want something you're not telling us

about, but I do want the white dragon dead, and we
can work on it later.

SAM: Let's all agree that this is definitely
bullshit.

TALIESIN: No, I'm going to disagree. I think that
everything that she said is the truth, and I think

that she's not saying an awful lot more. Deception
is far less interesting if you're not telling the

truth all the time, and I think she's telling a
lot of truth, just not nearly all of it.

LIAM: Lies of omission are a tricky thing, aren't
they?

TALIESIN: They're far more tricky than simple
lies, and I think that we've heard an awful lot of truth.

TRAVIS: I'm confused.

TALIESIN: So yes, I'm willing to work with what we
have.

MARISHA: Do you have any ideas on how to defeat
Vorugal?

MATT: "Well, for one thing, I will be peripheral
to the battle. I will aid you, but I cannot be

"seen on the battlefield, or Thordak will know
immediately there has been a turn of allegiance."

LAURA: So what good are you? What can you do?

SAM: Can you shapeshift into other beasts?

MATT: "I can change my form into a number of
creatures and be of assistance in that way. I have

"a series of arcane talents that I can bring to the
battlefield, as well."

SAM: We needed a beast to bait Vorugal with.

LAURA: I have an idea with that.

TALIESIN: I believe we're all on the same page.

MARISHA: What's interesting is the way that
stacks, too.

TRAVIS: Go ahead, or do you want to save it?

LAURA: If we're in this together, can I say it in
front of her?

SAM: Sure.

TRAVIS: No, don't.

SAM: Well, she'll need to know, at some point.
Once we get there.

TRAVIS: I say we agree on principle. We agree--

TALIESIN: Yes, we agree.

TRAVIS: I agree. Hands?

SAM: What are we agreeing on?

TRAVIS: To fight with Raishan.

TALIESIN: I'm in this far.

SAM: You don't need our votes. It's already
decided.

TRAVIS: You're abstaining? I really wish you would
vote. Your vote matters.

SAM: Is voting this time important, particularly?

LIAM: Jump on the carpet and go kill her, anyway.

SAM: But if I don't vote, won't someone else vote
for me?

TRAVIS: No, you actually sway the vote in greater
ways than you can possibly imagine. Very

important.

SAM: I don't even know how. Is it easy to find
out?

TRAVIS: I'm sure the internet has all your
answers.

SAM: I should go online and find out how to
register to vote.

LIAM: Look, it's never an easy choice, but you
have to fall down on one side or the other,

Scanlan.

LAURA: Preferably one that doesn't rely on hate as
a message.

TALIESIN: Okay, we've gone far enough off the
track. Okay, reeling it back.

SAM: All right, let's kill a dragon and feel that
burn.

(laughter)

LIAM: Oh, Chris Hardwick as Gern, coming in for
the political joke!

SAM: All right, I'm in, for now.

MATT: "All right."

MARISHA: Keyleth holds her hand out to shake her
hand.

LIAM: I am drawing a blade behind my back.

MATT: Asum walks around the table slowly, making
eye contact with you, those yellow, reptilian

slits for eyes. Brushes past you. "You've grown
quite a bit in just these few moments, young Keyleth."

MARISHA: I heat up my hands a little bit with my
flame hands. Feel the burn.

SAM: The dragon dies.

(laughter)

MATT: She stands there, keeping the grip, and then
releases your hand. "Very well. What's your plan

"against Vorugal?"

TRAVIS: We need a moment. I feel like the emotions
in here are a bit raw. Can we please?

TALIESIN: We will reconvene tomorrow for battle.
Plan for travel. Tomorrow morning to arrange

travel and the battle plan towards--

SAM: Shouldn't we keep an eye on this one all
night?

TALIESIN: No.

LAURA: What? We haven't kept an eye on her the
whole time.

SAM: I know, but she could be sneaking around,
creeping into rooms--

TALIESIN: That she hasn't already creeped into?

MATT: "I can guarantee you you're not wrong, but I
have been and I will, regardless of what you try."

SAM: She could come into my room at night and do
things to me that I don't want to be done.

TRAVIS: Let's be honest, there's nothing--

TALIESIN: Let's be fair.

LAURA: You're giving her ideas right now, aren't
you?

TALIESIN: I'm not changing the status of the
castle. She has the same status she had before,

there's no sense in changing them.

SAM: I'm going to have sex with every beast on
every continent.

TALIESIN: Thank you, Captain Kirk.

MATT: (singing) Gotta catch 'em all.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: I'm content with this.

MATT: "Very well. I'll go check in with the boss,
if you will. Alleviate any concern on his end."

TALIESIN: Thank you.

MATT: "We shall meet tomorrow."

TALIESIN: See you tomorrow.

MARISHA: Can I get an insight check on that "check
in with the boss?" See if she's going to turn

around and tell him everything.

LAURA: Natural 20!

MARISHA: Come on, natural 20! It wasn't bad. It
was a 15, so 26.

TRAVIS: That's not a 20.

SAM: Whispers.

TALIESIN: While you're whispering, Sam's got
another rap for you.

SAM: Do I?

LIAM: (rapping) Whenever I go to the Loot Crate,
somebody kill me now 'cause of the embarrassment

I'm experiencing, live in front of the Internet.

TALIESIN: Hey-o.

TRAVIS: Holy shit. I was alive for that. I was
alive for that just now.

LIAM: I didn't have a sideways hat. I needed a
sideways hat.

TRAVIS: The glasses didn't help, either.

LIAM: What is this? Manure Movers of America?

SAM: That's my hat.

TALIESIN: The feather shirt really adds the
whole--

(laughter)

SAM: Yeah, boi!

MATT: Raishan looks very confused.

MARISHA: All right, let's go.

MATT: "Very well. See you tomorrow." The image of
the veins, the scales, everything, reverts back to

normal. Seeker Asum nods and leaves the room.

TALIESIN: Downstairs, to the real room. To the
real room, downstairs. Downstairs, to the real room.

SAM: To the real war room, magically incapable
of--

LAURA: Yes.

SAM: Okay, but wait, before we go down there, two
things: Keyleth, can you scry today?

MARISHA: Yes, I can.

TALIESIN: Do not!

SAM: We could check in on Vorugal. Make sure that
Vorugal is actually there.

LAURA: Don't actually look at Vorugal, look at
something near Vorugal.

SAM: Just to make sure Vorugal is in town and not
here. We could look into Raishan's room right now

and watch how it communicates with its boss.

TALIESIN: Absolutely do not think that's a good
idea.

LAURA: I don't think so, either. She'll know.

MARISHA: Yeah, let's go down to the war room.

SAM: She'll go ape-shit and what? So we kill her.
We're better than she is!

TALIESIN: We're really not.

LIAM: She's obviously hiding shit from us, and if
one of us goes and pokes our nose in there, she's

going to start a draw, right there.

MARISHA: Are we in the war room? Can we go down
and talk about this in the war room?

MATT: All right, so you guys make your way through
Whitestone through the tunnels to the location of

the ziggurat. The war room is a series of tables
and chairs that have been assembled on the top of

the ziggurat, near the spinning bead of death, as
you call it. But yeah, it's makeshift, it's

functional. There's currently nobody else in here
even though there are a couple of guards stationed

to make sure that nobody comes in here without
approval. You are currently stepping up to the top

of the ziggurat, and there it rests, still
spinning silently in place.

TRAVIS: Drop it on them.

LAURA: I sit on the table. What's going on?

TRAVIS: No, tell them your plan.

MARISHA: Keyleth screams her head off for a
second.

LAURA: You did well, dear.

TALIESIN: I know how hard that was. I know. And I
wish I could say I did as well as you did, when it

was my turn.

MARISHA: I don't think I understood until that
moment what you did.

LIAM: You'll have your day. Absolutely.

TALIESIN: We can't spy on her. Well, we can spy
on her, but we have to be careful. We shouldn't

spy on her when she's speaking to Thordak because
Thordak might see it, which would mean that plan

or no plan, everything would be ruined.

LIAM: If Thordak senses, sees, any one of us in
the same place as her, he will go mad.

TALIESIN: And then if I were her, I would destroy
this city and all of us as quickly as possible and run.

LAURA: I feel like she needs to talk to the spirit
because she's going to try to absorb his power or

something.

MARISHA: She's a fucking idiot. What do I know
about Melora and this curse? Because there are a

lot of druids who worship Melora.

MATT: Make a religion check.

MARISHA: That's not good. I never do religion
checks. Nine.

MATT: You know that Melora is worshipped by druids
of nature, hunters, societies that exist in a more

natural setting, as well as ship captains, oversea
merchants, in hopes of getting good luck in

getting across large bodies of water and weather.
She is considered by some to be good, some

consider her to be in a neutral space and more of
like a mother nature type entity amongst the

pantheon here, if there was one. And as far as
curses go, you don't have too much experience with

curses outside of the minor ones that you've seen
used or have yourself at your disposal. But even

just from the few of you, Sam especially, Sam, go
ahead and roll an intelligence check.

SAM: Who, me?

MATT: Yes.

SAM: I need my thing. Hold on. Intelligence?
Straight intelligence?

MATT: Yes.

SAM: 16.

MATT: 16, and you get to add your plus two.

SAM: 18.

MATT: And if you wanted to, add your inspiration
die.

SAM: I will inspire myself, which is d12 now,
right?

MATT: Yeah, d12.

SAM: 26.

MATT: 26, okay.

SAM: Wow. That escalated fast.

MATT: That's what you can do as a bard; it's
pretty rad. Through the two of you conversing over

this, there are simple curses that can be imparted
for a temporary period of time, usually as some

sort of a penance to someone who slighted you.
Some that are part of a corruption on the land, a

blight that spreads to a life source. And there
are soul curses. Usually where someone feels so

wronged in their final moments that they basically
burn their soul and any possibility of the

afterlife purely to scourge whoever was
responsible for their pain. It's rarely ever done,

because it is essentially accepting oblivion. Your
existence is done. The gods don't hold any sway

over your immortal soul; there is no afterlife.
However, you die knowing, for whatever that means

in that brief moment, that you have scarred the
individual in some degree for possibly the rest of time.

SAM: Do we know anything about how it can be
reversed or undone?

MATT: No, you have no idea. You've heard of it in
stories. And as far as you know, it was mainly a

folklore element, and you're like okay, no, I've
kind of heard of this. So if there was anything, this

might be it.

LIAM: I worry about her intentions with this
thing. Help me remember. When Pike has spoken to

dead things, they cannot lie.

TALIESIN: That's true.

LIAM: So she wants to talk to Thordak's spirit.
Who presumably cannot lie, right?

TALIESIN: Yes.

LIAM: Which could mean the cure to this disease.
But it could mean something to do with that thing.

TALIESIN: It could. It also, and this is a third
option. (sighs) Thordak could have tasked her with

bringing us to him in a way that he feels
comfortable with, and only then will he cure her.

I believe he holds the cure as sway.

MARISHA: This whole thing could be an entire
trap.

TALIESIN: Which means that we do have an ally for
defeating the white dragon.

SAM and TALIESIN: And should use it.

SAM: But then right after.

TALIESIN: Well, if the opportunity presents
itself.

SAM: Or shake her.

TALIESIN: If the opportunity presents itself to
kill her there, in a way that is fitting and where

we have advantage, then yes.

LIAM: Away from this city.

TALIESIN: In Draconia.

LAURA: We never mentioned J'mon Sa Ord when we got
back, so Asum does not know about that, or Raishan

doesn't know about that.

MARISHA: Unless she was scrying on us, which is
highly possible.

TALIESIN: Which is highly possible.

LAURA: Do we have no way of having knowledge of
when someone scries on us? They can do it.

TALIESIN: Sometimes we can notice, but often--

MARISHA: I would have to have a super high
perception in order to maybe sense it?

MATT: If someone were to scry on you and you were
to succeed on your saving throw, they would fail

to scry, and you'd have some sort of inkling that
something weird is going on. If you are a person

who's capable of casting the spell like you are,
you would be like, "Okay, someone's trying to peer

"through the veil."

LAURA: So you would know. She would know if
someone was trying to scry on us.

MATT: Unless she--

SAM and MATT: If she picked up on it.

MATT: You have no recollection of that happening.

MARISHA: Is there a way I can start looking out
for that?

MATT: You can be very conscious of that
possibility and keen on intercepting should

anything like that occur, sure.

TALIESIN: The other thing that can happen is we
can set different forms of attack when we finally

go against Thordak so that we have our mode of
entry and the way that we are going to be moving

that attack forward and make sure we have
secondary lines of attack that she will have no

knowledge of, that we will keep separated from
her.

SAM: Is there any way to move Whitestone, to
reinforce Whitestone, to get something here to

protect Whitestone?

TALIESIN: A bit. But not a lot. There's just not
enough time.

TRAVIS: How many Vestiges are left?

LIAM and LAURA: Two?

TALIESIN: That we know of.

LAURA: Speaking of Vestige, this is part of the
plan. So?

MARISHA: The Spire of Conflux was born from
Melora, so I'm wondering--

LAURA: (gasps) The Spire of Conflux. That's why
we've heard of her!

MARISHA: Yeah.

LAURA: Shit!

MARISHA: Oh, I've been thinking about that staff
for a while. I'm wondering if I can get to the

staff quick enough, it could be the key to really
defeating Raishan.

LAURA: It's resting in the belly of a terrible
beast in the Abyss, right?

MARISHA: Correct.

LAURA: So. Gate scroll.

MARISHA: And Vorugal loves something to hunt.

LAURA: What if we bring it through, let it fight
Vorugal, kill Vorugal, get the staff--

MARISHA: Kill Raishan. I like this plan.

LAURA: Not like anything could go wrong with it
but--

TALIESIN: It's a good start. It's brazen. I like
it.

SAM: (sighs)

TRAVIS: Yes?

TALIESIN: There's no easy way to do this.

SAM: We don't know what that thing is that has--
what the beast is.

MARISHA: Apparently, it's a goristro. A goristro?

TALIESIN: Can I make a history check?

MARISHA: It's a barista?

TALIESIN: There's no defeating a barista.

MARISHA: And she's really angry, because it's fall
time. Pumpkin spice lattes.

MATT: No, I'd say this would be a religion check.

TALIESIN: Not history, it'd be religion?

TRAVIS: I got this.

MARISHA: On what a goristro is?

MATT: Let me double-check just to be sure.
Specifically, this is knowledge of fiends is what

this is.

MARISHA: Apparently, his name was Yenk. Yank?

MATT: Yenk. Y-E-N-K.

MARISHA and LAURA: Yenk.

TRAVIS: All those yanks.

TALIESIN: One day, there will be a creature whose
name we don't make fun of.

LIAM and TALIESIN: Not this day!

MATT: And every creature you make fun of is going
to hurt that much more when it kills you.

TALIESIN: We are the Peter Parker of this game. We
walk around mocking things.

MATT: It's great. It's so wonderful.

TALIESIN: There's like this seventh ring of hell
where they're all hanging out going, "And then

"they called me Purvan."

LIAM: "It's pronounced 'Purvin.' That's so much
better."

TALIESIN: "I was named after my grandfather,
man."

MATT: I'd say honestly, like I might give a
religion check or a straight intelligence check.

It's going to be a hard DC for anybody that doesn't
have any specific knowledge or training in

anything fiend-centric.

MARISHA: In anything fiend-centric?

MATT: A goristro is a fiend. It lives in the
Abyss. Most things in the abyss are fiends.

SAM: You said religion?

MATT: I said possibly religion, if you have it
trained. If you're proficient in religion.

LAURA: Can Pike--

MATT: You can go ask her.

MARISHA: She's here.

TALIESIN: I'll send one of the guards to go bring
her in.

MATT: You wait about an hour. Pike quickly jogs
up. You hear the clanking of the armor as she

ascends the steps. "Hey, guys! Hi! What do you
need?"

TRAVIS: Barely heard you coming that time.

MATT: "Oh, thank you, Grog."

LAURA: Pike, have you ever heard of a goristro
named Yenk?

MATT: "No?"

LAURA: Nothing? It's a fiend in the Abyss.
Anything about a goristro?

MATT: "Fiends are bad, but I don't know anything
about a goristro."

LAURA: At least you know how to pronounce it.

TALIESIN: Do we have a library to consult?

TRAVIS: What would be wrong with summoning it?
What if it's really bad?

TALIESIN: I think it's a great idea. The worst
thing that happens is it's going to have to fight

two dragons.

SAM: It's a cool idea, but I don't think we can.
We need to know the beast that we are summoning.

TALIESIN: We have its name.

MARISHA: Yeah, we know what it is. Can we go to a
library, find a picture?

LIAM: Maybe Allura knows.

LAURA: Where is Allura? We haven't seen her in
forever. She's out--

SAM: She's a dragon.

TALIESIN: They can't all be dragons!

TRAVIS: I have something to confess. I farted.

LAURA: Just now?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

TALIESIN: Does the little black orb absorb that?
And suddenly the demon-portal-hell opens.

"Oh, that's all it took!"

(laughter)

MATT: What do you guys want to do?

TALIESIN: I'm going to go research.

LAURA: Yeah, can we go in the library and look in
the books there?

MATT: Sure. Okay. Who's going to the library?
Okay, those two. What's everyone else doing?

LIAM: I need to talk to you for a minute.

MARISHA: Okay. I stare blankly into space.

MATT: Okay, roll for perception. No. 
Grog, Scanlan, what are you guys doing?

SAM: Nothing for us to do.

TRAVIS: What are you talking about? We're the
masterminds of this portion of the adventure.

SAM: You're right. What do you want to do?

TRAVIS: I've got nothing.

LAURA: Is there somebody religious, outside of
Pike, in the city? Oh yeah, ask Kash!

MATT: Kash is in Vasselheim right now.

TALIESIN: But we do have priests. We have two
priests.

MATT: You have Keeper Yennen.

TRAVIS: Yeah, ask him about a giant fiend-beast.
I'm sure they know all about it.

SAM: All right, Grog and I will go talk to Keeper
Yennen about Yenk.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

TALIESIN: You could also always pray to the Raven
Queen.

LAURA: Oh yeah, you do have a shrine, after all.

MATT: We'll go with your guys' conversation first.
Vax and Keyleth.

LIAM: Come on, that's a good idea. Let's go to the
temple. I've been thinking a lot about your longer

life that you told me about. Once you're leading
your people, you've come into your own, yeah?

MARISHA: If I live past killing these dragons,
yeah.

LIAM: A thousand years or so, yeah? Now, I've
thought a lot about that, and I think we should

make a point of seeing that it happens. Well, once
you come out the other side of this. I want that

for you.

MARISHA: What do you want? I have a born duty to
my people that's hard to escape.

LIAM: Well, if we're all alive in a month, we can
work that out.

MARISHA: I guess we'll cross that bridge when we
get there.

LIAM: In the meantime, I want you to have this.
And I undo my cloak and shove it into her hands.

MARISHA: (whispers) Which cloak?

LIAM: I only have one. Made from the--

MARISHA: Oh, the displacer cloak.

LIAM: I'm so used to you smashing across our
enemies, shoulder-to-shoulder with Grog, I get

complacent. You're so strong. I know that. So much
more powerful than I am. Lulled me into a false

sense of security. But I can't have you gone. I
need you here, so anything we can do to stack the

deck in your favor. When you fell yesterday, it
shook me.

MARISHA: Seems to be a trend, watching all of us
fall.

LIAM: Kiki, will you wear that?

MATT: You'll have to attune to it on a short rest,
but you can do that. While you guys are doing

that, Percy and Vex, could you guys roll an
investigation check, each of you? Percy, minus

three, because you're still suffering resurrection
issues.

LAURA: Investigation? Oh! No, this has nothing to
do with dragons.

SAM: It's okay. You're fine.

LAURA: Ten.

TALIESIN: I did.

LAURA: Did you get a 20? Does it still count as a
20?

TALIESIN: Yeah, a 20's a 20.

MATT: It's still minus three. What's your total?

TALIESIN: Investigation? 21, after that minus
three. But this is a natural 20.

MATT: And ten? All righty. You guys spend the
better part of the next two hours or so poring

through the various libraries. You know them very
well. You've read through a lot of these growing

up. There aren't a lot of tomes or books that deal
with anything terribly fiendish. You do find one

that deals with tales of the Betrayer Gods. It's
more of an old history tome that deals with

pre-Divergence. It deals with the Founding, which
is the first era; the Age of Arcanum, which is the

second era; this is all pre-Divergence. It speaks
of the Betrayer Gods and many of their creations

and their followers that began to lay waste to
civilization and began to enslave the creators of

those that remained on the side of light.

You do see mention in there of various fiends and
demons and princes of evil. It's all very thick

religious text, but there is one page that has
artwork on it. Sketched and simple, but it shows

this strange, almost long, lithe vulture-like
creature, with wings and clawed hands, and a

beak-like mouth, called a vrock. You see another
section that has a woman, but the lower half of

her body is serpentine, like a snake, and she has
six arms carrying six different blades. It says

"marilith." Behind them, you see a looming
creature of hulking fur and muscle with fists like

battering rams, a turned up, pug-like nose with a
toothy jaw, and giant horns adorned with brass

rings that curve forward. Under that it says
"goristro."

LAURA: Did you find it?

TALIESIN: Well, that's intimidating.

LAURA: That's enormous.

TALIESIN: Yes. I think the dragon will be
pleased.

LAURA: I hope the dragon kills it.

TALIESIN: I'm fine either way.

LAURA: Well, that's helpful.

TALIESIN: It's very helpful. Whoever survives--

LAURA: We kill them. No problem. Anyway! And I
leave. We should probably show everybody what we found.

LIAM: It feels really third-grade in here, all of
a sudden.

MATT: The awkward pause dissipates, and you both
bumble your way out of the library to find the others.

TALIESIN: We both go out the door at the same
time.

LAURA: No, you first--

TALIESIN: Please--

MATT: Grog, Scanlan, you guys make your way over
to--

SAM: We are the worst people for this mission.

TRAVIS: We've got this on lock!

MATT: There's Keeper Yennen there with his small
temple to Erathis, I believe. There's nobody in

there, currently. It's empty. He's sweeping up
with one of his assistants that's helping keep the

place clean.

SAM: Tally-ho, Keeper Yennen.

MATT: "It's been some time. I'm glad to see that
you're all safe and sound."

SAM: Yes, well. We come seeking knowledge that
only you have. Maybe.

MATT: "Well, I am at your service. What can I
do?"

SAM: We needed some information about something
that is beyond our scope.

TRAVIS: Wait. I don't know if he's cool, man.
Maybe you should check him.

SAM: Check him? All right. I'll check him.

MATT: "What?"

TRAVIS: Yennen, you keep your hands where I can
see them.

MATT: "This is very--"

TRAVIS: Just keep them where I can see them.

MATT: He's got the broom in front.

SAM: I'm going to slowly touch his arms, make sure
he's real.

MATT: Your hands meet cloth and somewhat wrinkled
older gentleman skin.

SAM: I'll pat him down.

MATT: Make an investigation check.

SAM: 19.

MATT: You find a small pouch, seems to contain a
few coins. A somewhat stale piece of half-eaten

bread. A couple of unlit candles. That's about
it.

SAM: I sniff the bread. (sniffing) He's clean.

TRAVIS: All right. As you were.

MATT: "Most unusual."

TRAVIS: Don't worry. Can't be too careful.

SAM: There's dragons around.

MATT: "Right, right. That's all right." He picks
the bread up off the ground and puts it back in

his pocket.

SAM: Sorry about that.

TRAVIS: We're actually hoping you have some
information on a fiendish beast named Lucas.

SAM: Nope.

TRAVIS: Named Victor.

SAM: Yenk. Yenk. And he is a-- what's the type of
beast? A goristro.

MATT: "I have come across texts that speak of a
goristro. I do not know of one named Yenk,

"specifically."

SAM: Well, it's very important that we know his
name-- or her name-- accurately, because, well,

for many reasons. But we need to know its true
name. Is there any text you can point us to?

TRAVIS: Or tell us what you know of goristros.

MATT: "They were dangerous front-line behemoths
when the fiends attacked these lands, back in the

"pre-Divergence era. They were 20-plus feet tall
and living battering rams that tore through stone

"like it was paper."

SAM: Force is their weapon, not fire or any
magic?

MATT: "I don't know the specifics, but the texts I
have read speak of it being an unstoppable fist in

"the service of the Dark Princes."

TRAVIS: Right, now, we are totally up to date on
how to fight these things, but we are also part of

a group that's making sure you are at your best in
case they come round here. If I were to ask you

how to fight one of these things, what would you
bring?

MATT: "Everything?"

(laughter)

TRAVIS: An interesting answer. Might you be a
little less vague for my simple friend here?

SAM: Do they have any resistances? Acid, poison,
fire?

MATT: "I have no idea, unfortunately. I'm not
extremely well versed in fiendish things. I know a

"bit offhand from my teachings, but it's a very
specific--"

TRAVIS: I expected more, really. I did.

SAM: Are we going to play bad Grog, good gnome?

TRAVIS: I don't even know if it's worth it, at
this point. I expected more.

SAM: Oh, you're going to guilt it out of him.

MATT: "I'm not withholding any information. I
genuinely--"

TRAVIS: You want to protect Whitestone, right? See
its people to prosperity?

MATT: "That's what I'm doing."

TRAVIS: All right, then, maybe you should learn
more about hellish fiends!

MATT: "We've rebuilt half the city--"

SAM: (voice breaking) Grog, I don't think I can--
I'm emotional thinking of all the people in

Whitestone who are going to die.

TRAVIS: Look what you've done.

SAM: I can't keep it together. Is there any
information you might know that can save your

people?

MATT: (strained) "I don't know!" And he rushes off
toward his room. You start hearing him turning

over blankets, things tumbling onto the ground.
He's tearing through his room in the back of the

temple.

TRAVIS: Well done. You've got to lick your fingers
and then wet--

SAM: Oh, good, yeah. Ooh.

MATT: About ten minutes go by before he comes out,
sweat pouring down his face. He's like, (panting)

"I have nothing. I'm sorry."

TRAVIS: It's all right. We all have room to
improve. I suppose we know now where yours lies.

You have your orders. Don't make me tell Percy
about this.

MATT: Make an intimidation check.

LIAM: That guy's going to go back to his room and
flagellate himself.

SAM: We're shaking down our friend.

TRAVIS: 24.

MATT: He goes, "Yes, right, of course. I will
further my research, and perhaps I could send

"someone to scour the rubble of the Cobalt Reserve.
It may take a couple weeks. I'm so sorry."

TRAVIS: Not a bad idea. You've done lovely work in
here, by the way. The rebuilding effort looks great.

MATT: "Thank you."

TRAVIS: I'd like to see that passion in the rest
of your projects, that's all.

SAM: Is there anyone else who has knowledge that
you can think of that we should speak to?

MATT: "Not that still lives in the city,
unfortunately. You're in the service of the

"greatest minds of our city now, up in the castle.
We're trying to put homes up for those who need them."

TRAVIS: Shit.

LAURA: Yeah.

SAM: Thank you for your service to Whitestone.

MATT: "Also, thank you for yours."

SAM: We've had a weird, rough week, so sorry if
we--

MATT: "Apparently, now so have I."

TRAVIS: Just curious, do you need any money for
these homes? Or anything?

MATT: "Cassandra's taking care of the costs."

TRAVIS: Right. Shit.

MATT: "She's sending up materials from the Turst
Fields."

TRAVIS: You should know, we've been taking surveys
around the town, like, "A, B, C, people most

"important in the rebuilding of Whitestone," and
role models, and you're always the first name.

Isn't that right, Scanlan?

SAM: I don't think we can talk our way out of this
one.

TRAVIS: I'm just trying to make him feel better.
It's you.

SAM: You're top five in Whitestone, for sure.

MATT: "I appreciate-- It's very kind."

TRAVIS: You're doing good work. (strained) All
right.

MATT: "I have a lot of sweeping to do, if you
don't mind."

SAM: We did a good thing in there, Grog.

MATT: The assistant is over there wide-eyed,
watching this whole circumstance. He's a young,

maybe 17-year-old boy in a similar robe.
"Sebastian, stop staring and help me clean!"

"Yes, sir!" They both start sweeping the rest of
the temple as you guys walk out.

SAM: He's going to kill you someday.

TRAVIS: We clearly got the most info out of
anybody.

SAM: I think we got all there was. High-five.

MATT: All right. The two of you finally make your
way to the recently constructed temple of the

Raven Queen that Percy had built. What would you
like to do?

LIAM: I want to go in and have a moment. Pray.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: So I will go in and kneel down where
Percival showed me and stay quiet for a few

minutes, then ask a couple of questions. I haven't
spoken in a while. I'm trying to grow stronger.

Whatever it is you need. Maybe it is selfish, but
I seek vengeance against my mother's killer. Once

I have it, I will go to the ends of this world for
you. To help me go stronger, is there anything you

can tell me about the fiend named Yenk? We need to
use it.

MATT: Roll a religion check.

LAURA: You can do it!

LIAM: I will stick with that. No, I'll stick with
that. 21.

MATT: 21. The door still left ajar to the temple
as Keyleth walked in earlier, a bit of a breeze

swirls in for a second, carrying a few leaves.
They scatter around, come to rest. The candles

flicker for a moment and the light dims ever so
slightly. Nothing beyond that from your

perspective, Keyleth. You, Vax, feel a familiar
cold embrace. It's interesting. It's chilling and

causes your skin to goosebump, but it's still
comforting. While you see nothing within your

closed eyes, you can sense a pair of cold lips to
your left ear that whispers toward you, "Knowledge

"of this is earned. You seek this with your allies.
Some have already found secrets. I can only say

"that the path you walked to the sphinx gave you
what you need. Stay alive." You feel the lips fade

from your ear. Warmth comes back to your sides,
and your eyes flicker open, knowing that her

presence is no longer there.

MARISHA: Any luck?

LIAM: Sort of. She told me something, but I'm too
stupid to understand.

MARISHA: I don't think that's true. Gods really
enjoy being vague. What'd she say?

LIAM: She said that the path to the sphinx told us
everything we want to know.

MARISHA: Which sphinx? We've seen two now.

LIAM: She didn't say.

MARISHA: Damn it. Why do they have to be so
cryptic?

LIAM: Because they can.

MARISHA: Ugh.

LIAM: Come here. That's on crooked.

MARISHA: I don't think I wear it as well as you.
It's a little baggy.

LIAM: Here's to a thousand years of you.

MARISHA: That made me a little nauseous. Let's
go.

MATT: As you guys all go to convene in Castle
Whitestone to discuss the next length of your

plan, we're going to take a restroom break. See
you guys back here in a few minutes. Thank you

once again, Loot Crate, for being awesome, our
sponsor. Thank you guys for sticking around. See

you guys in a minute.

LAURA: "Is it Thursday yet?" Did you almost say
"Is it Thursday yet?"

[break]

MATT: Welcome back everybody from the break.
Before we get started, I wanted to bring this up

in case you guys were not aware. I was made aware
of it at the end of last week, but they announced

Twitch Prime. What that allows is for anybody out
there that has an Amazon Prime account you get

automatically one free subscription to a Twitch
channel of your choice, so if you are not a

subscriber to Geek and Sundry's Twitch, to help
support the show, and you have an Amazon Prime

account, you can do that now, free of charge.

TRAVIS: You'll be in the chat room; you'll get all
the goodies.

MATT: All the goodies, you'll have access to the
VODs immediately. You won't have to wait until

Monday for the YouTube videos to come out for the
episodes, and it is of no additional cost to you

as long as you have a Prime membership. I wanted
to make sure you guys were aware of that, because

I was recently made aware of that.

All righty. Picking up where we left off, the rest
of you guys have done some research, gathered some

information that may or may not be helpful. What
do you want to do for the rest of your preparation

for whatever you wish to do going forward?

LIAM: This is before beddy-bye time?

MATT: Yeah, you guys are still--

TALIESIN: I've a few things I think we should do.

LAURA: Okay?

MARISHA: I think there's a lot we need to do.

TALIESIN: First, I think we should brew some tea
and not drink it.

LAURA: Oh. It only lasts for how long?

TRAVIS: What?

LAURA: The venomous tea.

MATT: It'll probably last for the day.

LAURA: All right, yeah. It'll last for 24 hours.

SAM: So wait, you want to make poison and not do
anything with it?

LAURA: We'll keep it.

MARISHA: Just in case.

SAM: In case someone comes over for tea?

MARISHA: Emergency poison.

TRAVIS: Why wouldn't you make it in front of her,
and then it's way less conspicuous.

LAURA: (gasps) That's true! Let's make some and
put it a flask, and then we'll do it later.

LIAM: Are you talking about for Raishan?

TALIESIN: No, just to have some poison.

LIAM: She's a poisonous dragon.

LAURA: Just to have some poison in general. Not
necessarily for Raishan.

TALIESIN: Maybe we'll make it in the morning.

LIAM: Maybe an enemy will come over. You're
right.

MARISHA: Maybe an enemy will come over.

MATT: As a specific master of dragon and dragon
knowledge, so you're aware, green dragons are--

LAURA: Poison.

MATT: Poison by nature.

LAURA: I don't think this is for Raishan!

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: I was actually thinking if we had a bit
of poison and if we could get it into the system

of one of the larger creatures at some point. A
big pot of poison, maybe.

LAURA: I knew you didn't think it was for
Raishan.

TALIESIN: Raishan's not going to drink tea and
die.

MARISHA: Right, internet? We knew it wasn't for
Raishan.

MATT: (laughs) All right.

TALIESIN: Yeah, I want to go downstairs, and I
want to see if Grog will give me all of the guns

to go upstairs and look at our giant cache of guns
that we suddenly have.

MARISHA and TALIESIN: All the guns.

SAM: That reminds me. On the walk home with Grog,
I turn to him and say: Oi, Grog, got any of those guns?

TRAVIS: I do!

SAM: How many?

TRAVIS: Two pistols, two rifles, really long
skinny guy. And I've got a greatsword.

SAM: Why should Percy have all the fun? What say
you and me take a pistol each, just as a backup

plan? An insurance policy.

TRAVIS: I don't want a pistol. How about you take
one?

SAM: You don't want a pistol?

TRAVIS: No!

SAM: You'd look so cool!

TRAVIS: It's not as intimate as what I do.

SAM: You are about the personal touch.

TRAVIS: I need the connection.

TALIESIN: What are the actual chances that he will
even know how to operate it? I'm not talking to

either of you. I'm talking to the powers that be.

TRAVIS: It'd be like a little GI Joe handgun. Do
you want a pistol?

SAM: Do you have any ammo?

TRAVIS: I do. I have 185 rounds.

SAM: Holy shit!

TRAVIS: So I take out one of the two pistols. Do
they look the same?

MATT: They look comparable, yes.

TRAVIS: Which one?

SAM: Is there any blood on either of them?

TRAVIS: Are there?

MATT: A little smattering on each of them, yeah.

TRAVIS: I'll give you the super bloody one.

SAM: I want the bloody one.

TRAVIS: Yeah! I toss it to him, and I give him--

LAURA: Six ammo. (laughs)

TRAVIS: (laughs) 15 rounds of ammo.

SAM: Thank you, Grog. Thank you very much. I don't
know what to do with this, so I'll pocket it.

TRAVIS: I'm pretty sure if you look into it--

LAURA: Don't even encourage that--

SAM: I've seen Percy do that a lot. Stares right
down the barrel and make sure it's working.

TRAVIS: Yeah, that's where the expression comes
from: "right down the barrel."

TALIESIN: Don't do that at home, kids. Just don't
do that.

LAURA: Just don't.

MATT: All right, so you go looking for Grog who is
not around the castle, and eventually, as you step

out, you notice Scanlan and Grog both walking up
the pathway to the front of Whitestone Castle.

TALIESIN: Oh good! We need to go through the guns,
we need to see what we have, we need to clean them

up. I've got a plan.

TRAVIS: Yeah, right, yeah. We need to-- (sniffs)
you need to clean up the guns.

TALIESIN: I do. I need to clean up the guns.

TRAVIS: Who has those guns? I have the guns.

TALIESIN: You do. That's right; you were very
clever.

TRAVIS: What you have?

TALIESIN: I have a book. It's a very nice book.

TRAVIS: Are you joking?

TALIESIN: No! No, I have a cloak. Would you like a
cloak?

TRAVIS: For what?

TALIESIN: The guns. I thought we were making a
trade here.

TRAVIS: Yeah, no, we are.

TALIESIN: All right, do you want a cloak, then?

LIAM: A Vestige?

TALIESIN: No, I've just got a cloak.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: What does it do?

TALIESIN: It looks smashing, and it's quite warm.

TRAVIS: It's a cloak of smashing?

TALIESIN: Yes, it is a cloak of smashing.

TRAVIS: Deal. All right. I will trade you that for
the long barrel thing.

TALIESIN: I'll need them all.

TRAVIS: In a minute.

TALIESIN: No, I need them all. I really don't have
anything else.

SAM: You don't have any guns? What happened to
your guns?

TALIESIN: Well, no. I need to clean--

TRAVIS: What about your glasses?

TALIESIN: (chuckles) I sort of need those
glasses--

TRAVIS: Do you?

TALIESIN: Yes.

TRAVIS: Give me your glasses. Just let me hold
them. Show us some faith.

SAM: We're friends here, right, Grog?

TALIESIN: Is everybody here? Is everybody watching
us?

MATT: Just the three of you guys and three guards
back by the front of the castle.

SAM: I don't know what he's doing. I would not
trust him. But then again, you don't have a choice.

TALIESIN: I don't trust him, either. I did have
siblings; I'm aware of how this happens.

TRAVIS: How many fingers am I holding up?

TALIESIN: Four.

TRAVIS: Was he right?

SAM: He was right!

TRAVIS: I don't know why you need the glasses.

TALIESIN: I need the glasses because I can't see
things that are up close. I can see things that

are far away perfectly fine.

TRAVIS: How many fingers am I holding up?

TALIESIN: I don't know.

TRAVIS: Is he right?

SAM: He doesn't know.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Very well. You passed. Glasses. And I give
him the two rifles.

TALIESIN: He also has Ripley's gun?

MATT: Yes.

TALIESIN: Why don't we come inside so I can
explain to you my plan so that you can feel good--

TRAVIS: No, this is very important for me out
here. I have a position of power, and I'm not

about to give it up. What else have you got?

TALIESIN: I have a title. I can title you.

SAM: Oh, yes! Title him!

TALIESIN: Would you like a title?

TRAVIS: Take note, Scanlan: this is how you get
shit done. I'm listening.

TALIESIN: All right, I will title you if you give
me everything that I need. I need all the

ammunition, all the guns, especially the
complicated guns. I'm going to need everything.

TRAVIS: Yeah, I have one other pistol, I have 170
rounds for the little bitty guy, and I've got 26

rounds for the (belches) rifles.

TALIESIN: All right.

TRAVIS: Do you want the full plate armor and the
greatsword, too?

TALIESIN: No, plate armor and greatsword are
completely up to you.

TRAVIS: (belches) Okay. I give it all over. What's
my title?

TALIESIN: Grand Poobah de Doink of All of This and
That.

SAM: Grand Poobah de Doink of All of This and
That.

TALIESIN: Of All of This and That. It comes with
no money and no land, but it is a title.

SAM: I'm unfamiliar with protocol. A Grand Poobah,
how do you address them? Is it a "your Majesty," a

"your Highness," "your Grace?"

TALIESIN: No it's "Hey you, over there." "Hey, you
guy."

SAM: Hey, you guy.

TRAVIS: Yes, my humble servants.

TALIESIN: "Sweet chestnut."

TRAVIS: Are those all official names?

TALIESIN: Oh, yes. They're used in very different
ways.

TRAVIS: Well look, let's keep it on the low-low,
right, I don't want too many people getting

jealous, so like only in private quarters will you
address me by my official title.

TALIESIN: Okay, or the shortened versions
thereof.

TRAVIS: Yeah, which I look forward to learning.

TALIESIN: You will enjoy them. I'm sure we will
all enjoy them.

SAM: This is a great day, Grog.

TRAVIS: It is, right? Man, I just keep coming up
in the world. Coming up, against all the odds. I

feel like an Eminem song in the background right
now. Eight Mile, bitches. Let's go inside.

TALIESIN: Didn't even bother to insight check, did
you? That's great. That makes me so happy.

SAM: Percy, don't forget, you promised me one
of those guns.

TALIESIN: I'd actually have to teach you how to
use it, you are aware of that?

SAM: Maybe you can teach me first, and when I've
learned, you can give me one.

TALIESIN: Maybe we'll have that conversation. I'm
going to take a look at their various levels of

repair. I want to take a look at how they look,
how many of them need work, how many of them are

at least functional.

MATT: Most of them need work. A number of them
backfired during the actual battle, and the other

ones were not taken very good care of, so you're
probably going to need to run a few repair checks

on that. You have the materials at your disposal,
you have your workshop.

TALIESIN: I'm going to do this not in private, but
I'm going to be, then I want to look at Ripley's gun.

MATT: Okay. You take a good solid look at Animus,
get a feel for it.

TRAVIS: I've got it!

MATT: Thank you, Travis.

SAM: (belches)

LAURA: Wow.

TALIESIN: Oh my god, really?

LIAM: That was Laura Bailey-esque.

TRAVIS: Can I find Vax while he's looking for the
gun?

MATT: Yep.

LAURA: Yeah, I want to go find Vax and Keyleth, as
well.

TRAVIS: I'm sorry, I meant Vex.

LAURA: Oh, me?

TRAVIS: Yeah, you.

LAURA: You want to find me? Hi, what's up?

TRAVIS: Hey, so remember when you showed me your
boobies during the fight with Kern?

LAURA: Oh, you saw them?

TRAVIS: Only out of the peripheral.

LAURA: Okay, yes?

TRAVIS: I wanted to say thank you on a very
delayed timeline by giving you this potion of

superior healing.

(laughter)

LAURA: Thank you so much, Grog.

TRAVIS: Yeah, so if they ever get jacked up again,
heal them, because I fight better with boobies

around.

LAURA: I'll remember that.

TRAVIS: Okay, cool.

LAURA: All right.

TRAVIS: Deal.

LAURA: Thank you so much.

TALIESIN: This is mean.

LIAM: That was spectacular.

TALIESIN: I missed everything. I'll watch it on
the preview because this is a--

MARISHA: Isn't it breast cancer awareness month?
It is, right?

TALIESIN: Now I'm aware.

MARISHA: Check your boobs, ladies.

LAURA: It's important.

LIAM: Don't let them get jacked up.

TALIESIN: Okay, I'm going to do my best to clean
and work on these guns tonight, and at some point,

I'm going to send a guard to find Vax.

MATT: Vex, you've gone and looked for Vax and
Keyleth. After you guys had your conversation

about everything, eventually you catch up to-- are
you guys still together? Yeah, so you find the two

of them.

LAURA: Hey, did you find anything?

LIAM: Sort of. I wanted to talk to you and
probably Percival, as well.

LAURA: Yes?

LIAM: Well, I communed with my deity--

LAURA and MARISHA: The Raven Queen.

LIAM: That's the one! And she said something that
I don't know what she meant.

LAURA: Okay.

LIAM: I asked about this Yenk, and she said
everything we needed to know we saw on the way to

the sphinx.

LAURA: Which one?

MARISHA: That's what I said!

LIAM: She didn't say.

LAURA: Okay.

LIAM: I'm drawing a blank, I don't know.

LAURA: Everything we need, we saw on the way to
the sphinx.

LIAM: So I remember the more recent trip better.
What happened the first time?

LAURA: Well, it's here--

LIAM: It was under the Slayer's Take.

LAURA: No.

LIAM: Yes, under the Slayer's Take.

LAURA: But there was a ziggurat, as well.

LIAM: Yes. Then the second time--

LAURA: We went down a cavern, and there was a
name.

MARISHA: Right. Had to do the whole name trial.

LIAM: Grog almost drowned.

MARISHA: So the first one was near where the
Cindergrove is.

LAURA: Right, and she worshipped the goddess of
knowledge.

MARISHA: Osysa was her name.

LIAM: We just spoke to her.

MATT: Osysa was the gynosphinx who works at the
Slayer's Take. The goddess she worships is Ioun.

LAURA and MARISHA: Ioun!

LAURA: So maybe we need to talk to Ioun, no? Maybe
we just talk to a god. That's impossible unless you're--

LIAM: I just did it, yeah, but I didn't understand
what she told me, so six of one, half a dozen of

the other.

LAURA: Worthless, really. Yeah. That's a nice
cloak you have there, Keyleth.

MARISHA: It's a little baggy, but thank you.

LIAM: I gave you a cloak once, and you stopped
using it.

LAURA: This is true. It looks lovely, though,
stacked next to the rest of my clothing. Do you

want it back?

LIAM: No, I do not want it back.

LAURA: He only gives cloaks to those he really
cares about, Keyleth. Really cares about.

LIAM: This is really awkward, and I'm going to
walk the fuck out of here. Good night, ladies.

MARISHA: I got a wink from Vex!

LIAM: I go off looking for Percy.

TALIESIN: Good man.

MATT: While they share their awkward smile, you
find Percival down in his workshop, currently

repairing weaponry with Ripley's gun placed down
out on its own in the middle of the table.

LIAM: Hello?

TALIESIN: Oh, good. It's you.

LIAM: Do you mind?

TALIESIN: Not at all. I was actually hoping you
would stop in.

LIAM: Gods! What does all this shit do?

TALIESIN: Mostly break, quite successfully.

LIAM: Just like us. I just broke in the temple
that you--

TALIESIN: I assume it was vague and unhelpful?

LIAM: It was.

TALIESIN: Excellent!

LIAM: First, I don't think I ever officially
thanked you for it.

TALIESIN: You're welcome.

LIAM: Thank you. How are you feeling, buddy?

TALIESIN: (sighs) I'm terrified, but other than
that, I think I'm good.

LIAM: I came here for a reason, you're the brain,
you're the one that hangs brain. I don't know what

to make of my conversation with the higher power.
I asked about Yenk. I asked what we should do, and

she talked about the sphinxes. She said that
everything that we needed to know we learned on

the way to the sphinx. I don't know which one? I
don't know if it was the gynosphinx or the

not-gynosphinx?

TALIESIN: I would assume it was the sphinx that
was guarding her treasure. Oh! You should take a

look at this. And I point at the open book with
the picture. Look what we have. That is our friend.

MARISHA: Oh, is that Yenk?

LAURA: Well, it's one of Yenk's brethren.

LIAM: Did you follow me down here? I said I didn't
fucking want to--

LAURA: Well, obviously Keyleth's there, so I
figured I was, too!

MARISHA: I thought you were working in the middle
of--

TALIESIN: My door's open. I'm in my thing, but
it's open, and I've already sent people to send for--

MARISHA: I said "Hi, Percy." It's not my fault no
one notices I'm around. It's not my fault I'm a

fucking wallflower.

LIAM: You scared the shit out of me. This is some
nasty business. This is what we're dealing with?

TALIESIN: Yes, and if all goes well, which it
never does, that will be fighting the white

dragon, and possibly the green dragon. And one of
the two of them will kill the other, and then we

swoop in and clean up what's left.

LIAM: I don't know if it's smart, but I'm really
curious.

TALIESIN: I know. I understand; I feel the same
way. It's probably not going to work. It's

probably going to go terribly.

LIAM: I think it might.

TALIESIN: I think it might work. I'm feeling good
about that.

LAURA: Do we even know how to use the Gate scroll
exactly? Scanlan has to use it, right?

LIAM: Yeah, the little guy can pull it off.

MARISHA: It's going to have to be either Scanlan
or me but--

SAM: Hey, guys!

MARISHA: Scanlan! Hey!

SAM: Door was open, thought I'd come in. Grog's
right outside in the hall.

MARISHA: Hey, Grog! Come on in.

LIAM: Have you ever been here? Look at all this
fucking esoteric bullshit!

TRAVIS: Wow.

SAM: It's crazy! Is that a brain in a jar?

TALIESIN: No-- yes, that is something in a jar.
It's not a brain, though.

TRAVIS: What's that a picture of?

LAURA: Oh, that's the goristro.

TRAVIS: Oh. What are the other ones?

LAURA: Well, one is called a snake lady. A
marilith.

TRAVIS: Are they all together, or is it the one
guy?

LAURA: I think it's just the one guy. Hopefully,
other things can't come through. Can they? Read

that scroll again, Scanlan.

SAM: What, my Gate scroll? Yeah, well, I left that
at home today, but I think it calls the thing that

you call for. You give it a name, it goes, it
grabs it, it brings it in.

LAURA: It doesn't bring other things through?
Doesn't leave the gate open?

SAM: The gate does stay open for as long as your
conjuration, which is about a minute.

LAURA: So other things could come through.

SAM: Yes, that is true--

MARISHA: But you could close the gate once it
passes through.

SAM: I could drop it, yes. However, this is a
tricky spell for me because I am not-- as much as

it pains me to say this, I am not good enough to
cast this spell.

LIAM: You're selling yourself short.

SAM: I'm really good, but I'm not quite that good,
so I can cast it, but it carries a risk. If luck

is not on my side, it will not work.

TRAVIS: Like, it burns when you pee risk, or it's
going to fall off in three months risk?

SAM: Like it won't work forever. I get one shot.
If I don't do it right, it's gone forever.

TRAVIS: Are we talking about your penis, still?

SAM: Yes. My penis will fall off.

TRAVIS: That is terrible.

LAURA: We will have Raishan with us.

SAM: I'm not giving this thing to Raishan. But do
we know anyone who is at a slightly higher skill

level than me?

LIAM: Allura or Gilmore.

MARISHA: Also, Kima wanted to come with us to
fight the white dragon, remember?

SAM: Is she an arcane caster?

MARISHA: She's not, but if Kima is going, then
maybe Allura will.

TRAVIS: We can't bring them. We'd have to tell
them that Raishan's with us.

LAURA: No, we wouldn't. Raishan will be in
disguise.

LIAM: Raishan has had everyone fooled for a long
time.

SAM: Do we know where Kima and Allura are?

MATT: You haven't checked in to see if they're
here or not.

LAURA: Oh, they could be at the castle?

MATT: They wouldn't be at the castle. They stay at
one of the houses at the northern end of the city.

TRAVIS: Should I call for a guard?

TALIESIN: Call for a guard.

TRAVIS: (loudly) Guard!

TALIESIN: There's one literally down the hall.

TRAVIS: Oh. (stage whisper) Guard!

MATT: Who has now arrived and steps up. "You
called, Grog?"

TRAVIS: Yeah, no, please don't use my official
title. If you would, could you go see if Lady Kima

and Lady Allura are around?

MATT: "Do you wish for me to fetch them?"

TRAVIS: Yes. Go forth, quickly, with haste.

MATT: He rushes off. You hear the armor and
chainmail clinking in the distance.

LAURA: What time is it?

MATT: It's mid-afternoon. You guys have spent the
day doing research and checking things out. You

woke up in the morning and you had your
conversation with Raishan, so it's two, three in

the afternoon.

MARISHA: I have another question. How far are we,
timeline in the year? How close are we getting to

Winter's Crest?

MATT: You are close to three months past it, so
you have a ways to go before it's Winter's Crest

again.

MARISHA: When's the next solstice?

MATT: The celestial solstice? You're not sure,
actually. Make a nature check.

MARISHA: There's not a summer solstice and winter
solstice?

MATT: There are solstices, yes.

MARISHA: 24.

MATT: 24. The next solstice is going to be in
about a month. Roughly 28 days.

LAURA: Whatever relevance that has.

TRAVIS: So none at all.

TALIESIN: No, I see what you're getting at.

MARISHA: Thordak was busted out on the winter's
solstice, right? Also, the Briarwoods were rushing

to try and get the ziggurat up and running in time
for the solstice.

LAURA: Right. Important day, is that?

MARISHA: Very important day, where nature and
stars tend to align and planes can blur a little bit.

TRAVIS: Can I ask a quick question? I really like
this plan to use the gate thing and go attack

Vorugal. I don't even feel like we need Raishan
for it. Shouldn't we lure her away to somewhere

and then fucking kill her?

TALIESIN: This is luring her away somewhere.

MARISHA: The sooner she dies, the happier I'll
be.

LAURA: We get her over there, and then we kill her
afterward.

TRAVIS: But we'll be weak and she's on the fringe,
because remember, she's barely helping out?

SAM: What is she going to be doing to help us,
anyway?

TRAVIS: We haven't decided.

LAURA: She was going to be another magic user,
dressed as a human, or something.

TRAVIS: I like tricks, but Ripley got us pretty
good, and I don't feel like walking right into

another trap one week before another fight.

LIAM: I think better to get Raishan away from
here, and in that fray, she might not be touched,

but she might be whittled down a little bit.
That's better than nothing.

TALIESIN: She'll spend some power.

LIAM: We have to get her away from Whitestone. We
have to.

TRAVIS: I guess we couldn't get her anywhere with
a low ceiling, where her dragon form doesn't have

such an advantage?

TALIESIN: I think the ceiling would give.

TRAVIS: No, I mean a cave or something.

SAM: We could do that.

TALIESIN: How?

MARISHA: Vorugal lived in a cave.

LAURA: Yeah, but a little cave. A cave that Asum
would fit in.

MATT: That wasn't a cave, it was inside a chasm. A
giant ravine.

TALIESIN: I think far away on another continent is
a great idea.

TRAVIS: What about the little cave in Glintshore?

TALIESIN: I'm happy just to take her. She's going
to follow us already.

MARISHA: Well, here's my question. I'm sure she's
anticipating us turning on her. What would you do

if you were a green dragon anticipating people
turning on you?

TALIESIN: It depends. If I needed them, I would
put myself in a position of safety, make myself

useful, and then make sure I was back somewhere
where they would not attack me as quickly as

possible. If I didn't need them, I would turn on
them immediately after the fight.

LIAM: She's going to put out the barest amount of
effort to help us from behind.

TALIESIN: If we die, her plan foils. If we do not
feel she put in enough effort, her plan also foils.

TRAVIS: I picture Thordak going, "Raishan, use
your treachery and intellect and go kill Vox Machina."

TALIESIN: My feeling is use your treachery-- Where
are we? We're in my shop right now? Okay.

MARISHA: Keep that in mind. We could be getting
spied on. Are we being watched?

MATT: You have no sense of being watched by any
exterior force.

LIAM: Also, we know we're walking into this shit.
That's no surprise.

SAM: And our plan doesn't necessarily have to be
kill Vorugal, turn and kill Raishan right there.

We can keep playing with her for a little while
longer.

LAURA: She can sense lies.

TRAVIS: All right, so we buck up. We go through
with it.

TALIESIN: We go through with it. We made an
agreement. I say we honor it until such point as

it is deeply inconvenient.

TRAVIS: I'm down.

LAURA: Can I go find Zahra?

MATT: You can, yes.

TALIESIN: Vax, your boy.

LIAM: Arguably so, yeah.

TALIESIN: Your boy. I'm thinking of creating a
company of shot for the castle with these guns. Do

you think that would be a position that would suit
him? Guards that would be forbidden from carrying

these weapons outside the walls of the castle
itself, and would arm the parapets if there was an

attack from a dragon.

LIAM: I do. I don't know how good a judge of
character I am, though.

TALIESIN: Hopefully, a better judge than I am.

LIAM: You know, I have face-planted more than any
of you, maybe. I have with that boy. I can see it

in his eyes. We're up to our elbows in blood.
There has to be room for a little bit of

redemption in this world.

TALIESIN: I'm a big believer in second chances. At
least, I am now.

LIAM: It's a good idea.

TALIESIN: I wanted to check with you. I thought
this was something that I assumed you would have

some insight into.

LIAM: Do we have time to teach them how these
things work?

TALIESIN: He may already know a bit. He spent some
time around them, which is also why I thought it

might be helpful.

LIAM: Do you want to talk to him?

TALIESIN: Well, I figured we would talk to him.
I'm still not 100%. We are going to be fighting

these dragons, and I am not at my best.

LIAM: Well, you probably need to get to bed, but
why don't we go find him before it grows too late?

TALIESIN: I'll continue to work on these. Bring
him down when you find him.

LIAM: I will. Thank you. I head out.

MATT: Okay. Percy, can you make three tinkering
checks for me?

TALIESIN: Tinkering check?

MATT: Yes.

SAM: Three.

TALIESIN: Stop that. Where did all my dice go?
Okay, apparently I have three. Dex, proficiency,

if I recall? Okay. That's a 29, a 27, and a 13.

MATT: Okay. Rudimentary in their design, but
functional. You manage to clean them all and

repair the ones that were heavily damaged earlier
and make them functional again without an issue.

During that time, Keyleth, you were going to
mention something, you said?

TRAVIS: And Zahra.

MARISHA: What did you say about Ioun, and why is
Ioun important right now?

MATT: Ioun is the god of knowledge and spreading
of knowledge and was what the temple that Osysa

watches beneath the Slayers' Take is based around.
It's also what the ziggurat beneath the city used

to be: a temple to Ioun, before it was corrupted
by the Briarwoods.

MARISHA: Scanlan, do you still have those Ioun
stones?

SAM: I have an Ioun stone.

MARISHA: Okay. Was Raven's Slumber the name of the
temple?

LAURA: That's my necklace.

MARISHA: That's your necklace that's got Trinket
in it.

LAURA: When we're not in the city. He's out of the
necklace. Yes, he's always around.

MARISHA: What if we go back to that temple?

SAM: And do what?

MATT: Vax is gone right now.

LAURA: I'm also gone.

TALIESIN: She's been helping me clean.

MARISHA: Never mind, keep going. I'm just trying
to figure this out.

MATT: All right. Vex, you go ahead and find Zahra,
who's in the process of still researching in her

room, her and Allura, while she was focusing on
the ziggurat and the essence of it. So you find

her and her tomes are spread out, and she's
actually fallen asleep on her desk in her room.

LAURA: Knock-knock? Zahra?

MATT: Puts her wand out in your direction.
"Darling, I'm so sorry! I didn't mean that."

LAURA: How are you? How are things?

MATT: "Tiring, if anything." She wipes this bit of
drool from the side of her chin. Immediately sits

upright in her chair.

LAURA: I never noticed the drool, don't worry.

MATT: (chuckles) "Good, just trying to figure out
what we can from these siphons."

LAURA: Anything interesting?

MATT: "Not yet, though it's been a lot of fun
throwing things into them and watching them go away."

LAURA: Speaking of, you've been very busy, I know,
with all of your research, but do you remember

what we spoke of before we left?

MATT: "Remind me."

LAURA: Arrows of dragon-slaying?

MATT: "Oh, yes! I was able to muster one."

LAURA: Okay, that's wonderful! One is better than
none.

MATT: "That is all I've been able to get done in
time." She pulls out a small case and opens it. It

looks a little roughshod, not quite as perfect,
but she says, "The enchantment took."

LAURA: Wonderful! This is costly, what do I owe
you?

MATT: "Oh, for this?" Let's find out.

LAURA: I hope this isn't a lot.

TRAVIS: 5,000 gold.

MATT: "That would come to roughly-- on the market,
about 30,000 gold pieces."

LAURA: But she made it, so that's not how much it
would be, right? Zahra said it wasn't that much before.

MATT: "It's mostly done? I could keep working on
it, if you like, and make it all done."

LAURA: Oh. Okay. But that's 30,000 gold pieces?

MATT: "Well, for cost and time. I'd put it more
about 12, for a friend."

LAURA: Jesus. Man.

TRAVIS: Better make it work, then. Better wait.

LAURA: I'll wait. You keep making this awesome.

MATT: "Okay. Sorry dear, I haven't had a lot of
time."

LAURA: (dryly) No. I know you're so busy.

LIAM: The romance is over.

(laughter)

LAURA: Mark it back down to one in my-- Zahra,
you're amazing.

LIAM: (dryly) No, it's great. It's super cool.

LAURA: We're going into battle pretty soon. These
fuckers are pretty dangerous, so I'm concerned.

MATT: "So should I balk on the research and focus
on--"

LAURA: Keep doing what you're doing. If you find
the time--

MATT: "Noted."

LAURA: Thank you, Zahra.

MATT: "No worries, dear. I should make some tea."
She rubs her eye a little bit, gets up. "Have a

"good night, Vex." Walks by. As she exits the room
as you stand there, her tail whips you in the back.

LAURA: I deserved that!

LIAM: Mary is going to see this!

LAURA: Mary said it was only five, okay.

TALIESIN: Mary says a lot of things.

TRAVIS: Did Kima and Allura show up yet?

MATT: Kima shows up.

TRAVIS: Kima shows up? Kima!

MATT: As she walks up, it's midday. She's not
armored at all. She's wearing a standard linen

shirt that's sweat through. It looks like she's
been doing physical labor work and she comes up

with dirt smeared in her face. "Grog, it's been a
while!"

TRAVIS: It has! Yeah, you little badass.

MATT: (chuckles) "You big badass. What can I do
for you?"

TRAVIS: Oh. Yeah. The thinkers are inside the
room.

SAM: Hey. Where's Allura?

MATT: "Do you need me to get her, as well?"

SAM: Yeah, the guard was supposed to get you
both.

MATT: "Ugh. I'll be right back." She leaves for a
bit. You wait a little bit longer.

Eventually, she comes back with Allura. Allura not
quite as dirty as Kima. They both arrive. "Hello,

"I'm glad to see you've returned. Can I help you?"

SAM: Yes, I don't normally need to ask for help
with magic, but this Gate scroll that I have here,

is this something that you can do?

MATT: "This is beyond my magic."

SAM: Forget I ever showed it to you. Doesn't
exist.

MATT: "No, this is incredible. This is very
powerful magic."

SAM: I know it's really cool, but you shouldn't
know about it. It's bad news.

MATT: "I think it has quite a bit of utility, to
be honest. Do you need this, or could I--"

SAM: No, I do need it, desperately, yes. It's very
vital to our mission.

MATT: "Well, all right."

TRAVIS: Whoa, wait. Do you have a use for it in
mind, in particular?

MATT: "Well, this is the kind of spell that I
could copy into my spellbook, and once I'm able to

"utilize it down the road it would be at my
disposal."

SAM: Would that make this scroll inactive?

MATT: "It would destroy the scroll, but I would be
able to utilize the spell in a few years, maybe."

TRAVIS: How long does it take to copy down the
scroll? A couple seconds?

MATT: "It takes a few hours, maybe."

TRAVIS: What is this voice I'm hearing?

LAURA: I just wandered back. I'm done talking to
Zahra. Hey. The door's open.

MATT: "Be careful with that. From what I can glean
from the enchantment, it offers you quite a chance

"to pull pretty much anything to your side, but no
real bindings on what you pull through."

SAM: Yes. I think I understand how it works, but I
don't know if I'll be able to do it when the time comes.

TRAVIS: No bindings on what comes through? You
might get more than you bargained for?

MATT: "There are many a mage who ended up trying
to bend something to their will and weren't seen

"ever again."

SAM: I think what she's referring to is once we
pull the thing through, it acts of its own

volition. We can't tell it what to do.

LAURA: We stay clear.

TRAVIS: Okay. But will its friends come through?

SAM: Probably not?

TRAVIS: Probably is good enough for me.

SAM: (sighs) All right.

LAURA: Once we pull it through, how do we keep it
in place long enough for--

SAM: We don't, we pull it through right in front
of--

LAURA: How do we get in front of--

SAM: I could be invisible.

TRAVIS: Allura, thank you so much for your time.
Please don't let us disturb you any longer.

MATT: "No worries, I'm about to ready continuing
to strengthen the veil with Shaun--"

SAM: Also I don't know if you'd heard, but Tiberius
fell.

MATT: "Oh. I'm sorry to hear that. These are
dangerous times. I've got something I've got to

"do. Stay safe. Be careful with that." She walks
out of the room, a little dazed, and rubs the top

of Kima's head, and you watch her leave.

LAURA: How is she?

MATT: "She's stretched a little thin these days,
to be honest."

LAURA: Her and Gilmore both.

MATT: "Well there's a lot going on, and a lot
needs to be found and a lot needs to be done,

"and a never-ending barrage of responsibility.
Which I despise. Where are you guys off to?"

LAURA: Well, something you might enjoy, actually.

MATT: "Really?" You see this big, toothy grin curl
across her face, and her fingers twitch. "So?"

LAURA: Feel like killing a dragon?

MATT: (excited chuckles) "I was hoping you'd say
that! Let me get my armor. How soon? When?"

TRAVIS: Pretty soon. We only save you for the big
fights.

MATT: "All righty! Stay right here. I'll be right
back!" She darts off with a spring in her step and

a little chuckle as she heads down the
hall.

TRAVIS: Quick, before she comes back.

LAURA: No!

TRAVIS: What? It would be the best bag ever, come
on.

SAM: Won't she ask why Asum is with us?

LAURA: No.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

MARISHA: Here's what I think. She's going to find out
eventually, and then what do we say when they all

know we've known the whole time?

TRAVIS: Look, when we start attacking Seeker Asum,
then we kill Kima. What? She's probably a dragon, too.

LAURA: Shit. I totally did that, didn't I? But she
wanted to come! And fight the dragon. I'm an idiot.

TRAVIS: Look, we don't have to tell her. As soon
as we hit Raishan, she'll reveal herself, anyway.

That was our agreement, not tell, right?

MARISHA: But then what happens when Kima goes, did
you guys know?

TALIESIN: Yes.

TRAVIS: Yeah. She didn't ask.

SAM: Paints us as pretty shady folk.

MARISHA: These are the people we need to trust us.
They are our allies.

TALIESIN: She has kept secrets from us, and we
have a perfectly legitimate reason for not

telling.

TRAVIS: I'm with Percy on that.

MARISHA: That was also years ago!

TALIESIN: No, we have a very-- fine! We still have
a perfectly reasonable reason for not telling

anyone, which is that if we tell people the city
gets destroyed.

LAURA: And they get destroyed!

TALIESIN: You are welcome to tell her, and then we
have to deal with the city being destroyed.

TRAVIS: Plus, Kima is a total bash brother, and if
she gets to find out she gets to kill two dragons

instead of one, I don't think she's going to be
upset.

SAM: I don't know, we're putting her in a lot of
danger.

TALIESIN: As opposed to staying here.

MARISHA: And we were aware, and we could have told
her. She going to be angry at not telling her the

full parameters.

TALIESIN: She will.

TRAVIS: Yeah, did see her, though? She's sweaty.
She's working on the outside of houses.

MARISHA: This is not someone we want to lose our
trust.

SAM: She could help protect the city, it could go
under siege.

TALIESIN: She's a soldier. They're used to not
being told things.

MARISHA: No, she is not a soldier in our
manifested army! She is our friend and ally. There

is a difference right now. This is a different
duty and relationship.

LAURA: I feel like I got us into this, and I'm
really sorry about that.

SAM: We can get her out of it really quickly.

TALIESIN: We can tell her not to come.

SAM: We can tell her that it never happened.

TRAVIS: You saw how excited she was! It's her
choice! If she's our friend and ally, let her choose.

SAM: She'll choose a fight every time.

TRAVIS: Yeah!

MARISHA: But she'll choose a fight unaware of
exactly what she's getting into.

TALIESIN: Well, we can make that clear, then. Tell
her that there are aspects of this fight that

sadly must remain secret, that it's far more
dangerous than we could possibly even explain--

TRAVIS: Yep, what he said.

TALIESIN: And that things may go completely
tits-up.

MARISHA: This is Lady Kima we are talking about!
She is one of the most hard-headed people we know.

She is going to push until we tell her what
happened.

TALIESIN: Even if we tell her the truth, she's
still going to want to come.

MARISHA: So then either we tell her the truth and
trust that she can keep a secret, or she doesn't

come. She's going to find out, and I don't want to
lose her trust.

TALIESIN: I don't want to tell her.

MARISHA: Percy--

TALIESIN: No, I'm happy for her not to come
because I don't want to tell her, because I don't trust--

MARISHA: I don't trust anyone right now.

TALIESIN: I barely trust us to keep this secret,
let alone another person.

TRAVIS: Oh my god, honestly. All right. To a
vote.

LAURA: What are we voting on?

TRAVIS: Whether we bring Kima or not.

MARISHA: She's going to be mad at us either way,
so it depends on if she's mad at us now or even

more angry at us later.

TRAVIS: I want her to fight a dragon. All those in
favor of Kima not going to fight a dragon, raise

your hand. All those in favor of Kima going to
fight a dragon, raise your hand.

LAURA: You're abstaining?

LIAM: I'm not there.

LAURA: Oh shit!

TRAVIS: I grab my earring. I'm like, Vax, where
are you? Can you hear me?

LIAM: I'm sure I'm more than 500 feet away.

MATT: Yeah.

MARISHA: Well, look, she's then going to wonder
why we uninvited her. We are lying to her no

matter which way we take right now.

SAM: If you want I can wipe her memory of the fact
that we offered--

TRAVIS: Oh my god!

LAURA: If she finds out, she is going to be really
super pissed.

TALIESIN: I'm okay with this plan.

TRAVIS: Removing an ally from a fight.

LAURA: I feel like she should come.

TRAVIS: Taking one of the guns and going, nah! I
want that gun to trust me.

MARISHA: Look, I want her there more than
anything. I don't want to lie to her and I also

don't want her dead and I don't want to drag her
into a situation she could have known more about.

SAM: I defer to the Grand Poobah's will. I will
change my vote to yes.

TRAVIS: There could be ears listening.

SAM: I know. Don't worry, I'll wipe their minds,
too. Let's bring her.

TALIESIN: You really won't.

LAURA: Let's do it.

MARISHA: So we're bringing her?

SAM: Yes. And what's our plan? Do we go to sleep
and wake up and go? How do we get there?

TALIESIN: We go in the morning.

SAM: How are we getting there?

LAURA: Tree Stride.

SAM: We're going to burn her spell in the morning
to get there? Shouldn't we go now, sleep there?

TALIESIN: No, I was assuming we would go there
tomorrow, set everything up, and then have it

happen the day after. We can go camp in our house,
deep in--

SAM: With Raishan? In my house? Raishan's not
getting in the mansion, ever.

TRAVIS: By the way, that two-week time period we
had. How far into that are we?

SAM: Two days?

MATT: Yeah, you got a handful of days left.

TRAVIS: Okay. Just checking.

TALIESIN: We go there, we set up. Raishan can
handle herself.

SAM: Fine, let's go.

MARISHA: We're going? Well, you know what? I've
got to handle something first.

SAM: Oh boy.

MATT: While this is happening: Vax. Eventually,
you find your way to the makeshift training

barracks that are established on the northeastern
side of the city where Kashaw was earlier training

recruits. You can see now that this late in the
afternoon, most of the training has come to a

halt, but Jarett is still in the process right now
of instructing Kynan. Kynan has been given more

standard Whitestone armor to get rid of the dark,
roguish look that he had before, partially to help

him mentally feel like he's in a different place
and has some connection to the city. But Jarett is

in the process now of working him through some
swordplay. As you approach, the two of them stop

and Jarett looks over towards you. "Ah, Vax, it is
good to see you. What can we do for you?"

LIAM: Well, first, how's he coming along?

MATT: "Well he's a bit rough around the edges, but
he's actually a pretty decently trained fighter."

LIAM: Yeah, I'd agree with that.

MATT: Kynan's quiet.

LIAM: I'm on de Rolo business right now. Can I
borrow the boy?

MATT: "I don't know. Do you want to be borrowed?"

"I suppose. Did I do anything?"

LIAM: No, you're fine. Take a walk with me?

MATT: "Sure."

LIAM: I need to head back to the castle.

MATT: "Let me just--" And he hands the blade over
to Jarett, who takes it and sheathes it on the side.

LIAM: Jarett. He'll be back tomorrow for a little
more, all right?

MAT: "All right. I shall prepare. Don't do
anything stupid, boy." He smiles, and comes up and

starts walking with you but keeps about a foot and
a half, two feet between the two of you. He seems

to still be putting a boundary there.

LIAM: Hey. Listen to me. I wanted to give you a
little more time. I wanted to. And I don't think

we have it. Things are moving fast. You didn't
know what was going on. I don't fault you; I fault

myself. That day you showed up-- look at me. I had
a point, but I made sport of you while making it,

and that is on me. And I'm sorry for it.

MATT: "I'm sorry, too. I should have taken it for
the lesson it was, and I was too dumb and young to

"let it get through my thick skull."

LIAM: Hey, man. I'm a little bit older than you,
but I'm a massive fucking shithead. I've made

plenty of mistakes, and I only knew how easy it
was for shit to blow up in your face, and now it

has. Percival and I want to offer you a means of
squaring yourself off.

MATT: "What do you need?"

LIAM: This city is in danger, and it needs people
watching it, and I know you're training. Percy--

I'm sorry, Percival-- has a task for you, and I
think it's well suited for you. You were around

Ripley, you were around her other men, and you
know how to use a sidearm.

MATT: "I've toyed with it. I wouldn't say I'm a
great shot, by any means."

LIAM: Sure. But the number of people who know how
to use those things I can count on two hands.

Here. We have guns now. We need people to use
them, so I want you to come and talk to Percival

for a bit, and we're going to work out a plan for
you to show some people the ropes.

MATT: "All right. Okay."

LIAM: This is your second chance. I don't doubt
you're going to make the best of it. I truly do

not. And again, I was going to wait on this,
because I can see the pain in your eyes, but there

isn't time. And I want you to be well equipped, so
I want you to take these. And I hand him two of

the three daggers that I bought that day, and I
take out the Keen Dagger, which requires

attunement. These are mine, and now they're yours.
Water under the bridge, and I don't want to hear a

word, just walk with me to de Rolo.

MATT: "Okay. Thank you."

LIAM: I'm sorry.

MATT: "I'm sorry." He walks along with you,
eventually leading you back to Percy's workshop

where the instruction is given for the weapons.
Anything beyond that he doesn't understand about

the rifles. Nothing construction, general
outfitting. He seems to be more of an adept

student than you expected. He's got some intellect
to him, at the very least, he can pick up the

details pretty quick. Quick learner, when he puts
his mind to it.

About this time, as you're having this discussion,
you can hear the bounding of armored feet, and

bursting through the partially open door you see,
fully armored, eager, hair pulled back in a tight

braid, big old maul scraping on the stone behind
her. "All right. When are we doing this?"

TALIESIN: Tomorrow.

MATT: "Tomorrow? That's--"

(laughter)

MATT: "Does it have to be tomorrow?"

SAM: Why, what are you doing tomorrow?

MATT: "It's really quiet here. I'm getting
extremely bored."

SAM: Oh. You want to go now?

MATT: "I mean, whenever you need to, I'm just
saying--"

SAM: We could go now and camp there.

TALIESIN: That'll give Kik a chance to replenish.

LAURA: Yeah, that's true.

MARISHA: I don't see any difference in Raishan
being able to kill us in our sleep here or there.

LIAM: She could stay in the shittiest room in the
mansion, Scanlan.

SAM: She's not getting in the mansion. She can go
sit in the fucking snow and go to sleep, for all I care.

MATT: "I'm very confused right now."

SAM: Oh.

LIAM: Do the thing.

(laughter)

LAURA: It's only ten minutes now. It's only ten
fucking minutes.

SAM: The whole shebang, or just what we said right
now? Just what we just said right now, just that? Great.

TALIESIN: No, wait! Might as well test the
waters.

SAM: Okay, yeah. Good. Nine minutes and counting.

MATT: "Okay, hang on, whoa. I need some
clarification here." The hammer slams down onto

the stonework.

TALIESIN: Shut the door, lock it. This is not how
I wanted this to go down, but apparently this is

how it's happening-- wait a minute. Your boy is
gone by now, right? We sent him out.

LAURA: He's gone.

MATT: (laughs) No, you guys were teaching him
about the guns when she came back.

LIAM: You never know when it's out of character or
in character--

MATT: Mind you, he seems largely confused and
doesn't seem to know what's going on.

TALIESIN: I'm going to go take the boy for a
stroll and show him how this is going to work and

explain to him everything. Gentlemen, you actually
plan how we're going to kill dragons. Excuse me.

Give me strength.

LIAM: All right, quickly. Kima, we need to talk to
you about something very important, and if it

doesn't go well, Scanlan is going to erase your
memory, but--

MATT: "Excuse me?!"

SAM: I can do crazy things.

MATT: "No, nobody's doing that to me!"

LIAM: Of course not, because you are so cool. Cool
as a cucumber. We're in a bit of a predicament. We

are going to Draconia so that you can fight not
one but two dragons. Here's the thing: one of the

dragons is here right now, is coming with us in
disguise--

MATT: Immediately the maul gets grabbed, she says,
"Here?"

LAURA: No, I think you're doing it wrong.
Scanlan--

LIAM: We've got eight more minutes!

LAURA: No, we don't.

SAM: Lady Kima. We, in order to kill one dragon,
are entering into a deal with another.

LIAM: Before we kill it.

MATT: "Are you crazy?!"

TRAVIS: I know, that's what I said.

LAURA: Pure stupidity.

MATT: "Obviously, yes!"

TRAVIS: Hear him out.

SAM: If we do this, it could help us kill the
dragon that killed Tiberius.

MATT: "And you think you can trust this dragon?"

ALL: No.

MATT: "Come on, guys!"

TRAVIS: All right, look. The dragon is actually
poisoned by a curse. She's very weak.

MATT: "Great! Perfect!"

TRAVIS: We plan to take advantage of that.

MATT: "Why don't we kill the dragon here, and then
kill the other dragon there--"

LAURA: She'll fuck up Whitestone. It'll give us
away. We have to get away from the city.

SAM: Lady Kima, you're looking at a group of
idiots who have felled dragons, killed beholders,

negotiated with sphinxes, gone to other realms and
other planes, and somehow managed to get out of it

more or less alive.

MATT: "You are a lucky bunch of sons-of-bitches,
that I'll give to you!"

LIAM: You know what also this is like?

LAURA: I'm keeping an eye on the time.

MATT: She leans on her hammer.

LIAM: This is what this is like: this is just like
the Underdark, with one exception. We worked with

that fucking asshole thinking he might have some
redeeming qualities and he didn't, he turned on

us, right?

MATT: "Yeah, and who told you that? Who told you
that was going to happen? Who at the very first

"moment you showed him to me said, 'This guy is
going to try and kill you?'"

LIAM: But on the side, he helped us get as far as
he did, but then he got shot through the head, but

that's water under the bridge! This time, we
know that we're dealing with a fucking piece of

shit. We're going to turn on the piece of shit and
kill her. The whole plan is to get them all to

turn on each other, and then we mop up the messy
bits afterwards.

TALIESIN: Seven minutes!

LIAM: One dragon or two dragons? You want to play?
Let's play.

SAM: Or you can let us go into this without you.
And probably all die.

MATT: "Yeah, you're all going to die!"

TRAVIS: Oh.

LIAM: You were ready to run with us, girl!

MATT: "Oh, I'm coming with you, because I'm not
going to let you die!"

SAM: Oh, you are?

MATT: "God. Stupid bunch of gits, I swear.
Bahamut, are you serious? (scoffs) This is

"ridiculous. I'm not going to tell anyone you made
this plan until it's done, because this is

"stupid as shit."

SAM: It could be. But with you by our side, it has
a slightly better chance of going correct.

MATT: "Yes, it does."

LIAM: Kimmy, can you be cool?

MATT: "Please don't call me that."

SAM: Lil' Kim.

LIAM: Can you be cool?

MATT: "Where's the dragon?"

LAURA: It's in Draconia.

TALIESIN: Six minutes.

MATT: "What about the one that's here?"

LAURA: It's hiding.

MATT: "Hiding?"

LIAM: It's going to show up after the fact. In
Draconia.

MATT: "So this whole deal, you just don't trust me
enough to tell me where the dragon's sleeping in

"our place right now? You're all acting very
weird."

TRAVIS: We made a deal.

SAM: It's for your own protection. We can't tell
you everything.

LAURA: What if you go running off? What if you go
try to kill it in here, and Whitestone gets

destroyed?

MATT: "Please."

LAURA: It's a temptation. Believe me, we know.

MATT: "It is very tempting, trust me, yes it is.
But I'm also not stupid."

SAM: After all we've been through--

LIAM: We've all almost died a hundred times.

SAM: We're asking you to trust us blindly in this
scenario, and I know that it's not ideal, but we

have saved you before.

MARISHA: And Kima, please remember: between me and
you, of all people, before we trusted the

illithid, we trusted you.

LAURA: Well we trusted her.

MARISHA: You're right. I didn't trust you.

MATT: "I was about to say--"

MARISHA: They trusted you. I didn't. I'm getting
to my point! But we grew past that, and now I

trust you more implicitly than most people in this
world.

MATT: "Good."

TALIESIN: This is precisely why you people need
me!

LIAM: I think all these words are fucking it up.
She seems down. I think we should just get it on.

LAURA: Here's the thing, though: you have to
pretend like you don't know. It's super

important.

LIAM: Right. Can you be cool?

MATT: "You're asking me to lie?"

LAURA: Well. Pretend.

MATT: "I'm not real good at lying."

TRAVIS: How about you just don't say anything?

MATT: "That I can do."

LAURA: Okay. Perfect. And don't attack.

TALIESIN: Four minutes.

SAM: Should I wipe her memory?

TRAVIS and LAURA: No.

SAM: Might be easier, at this point.

TRAVIS: No, we're good.

MATT: "You come near me with any sort of magic
mumbo-jumbo, I'm going to clock you in the head, Scanlan."

SAM: Lady Kima, I don't know what you're talking
about.

MATT: "I love you, but I'm going to clock you in
the head if you try and wipe my memory, little gnome."

LIAM: Kima. We've got three minutes left. Kima.

MATT: "Until what?!"

LAURA: He can choose any ten minutes he wants,
really.

LIAM: That's true. You know our mind, you know
what our plan is. You're kind of a firebrand, do

you think it might be better for you not to know--
you know now, but to not know going in and then

you kill everything on sight when we're there?

MATT: "I have no idea what you're talking about,
and this is really starting to frustrate me. Are

"we going to kill a dragon?"

LAURA and TRAVIS: Yes.

MATT: "We're going to kill two dragons?"

LIAM: One to two dragons, yes.

MATT: "Great, okay. What's the plan?"

TRAVIS: We leave tonight.

LAURA: We go.

SAM: We go where the dragon is, we're going to
release bait. When the dragon is done with the

bait, we go in and kill the dragon.

TRAVIS: Yep, pretty much.

LIAM: And then another dragon.

SAM: Maybe a third after that.

LAURA: If we're totally weak, though, we can't
fight the second dragon right away, we have to

save up our strength and then fight her after so
we don't die.

MATT: "I'm not going to lie, I admire your drive
and gusto. Just be smart about this."

TALIESIN: Look at that, she says she can't lie,
and there she did it so well.

SAM: I thought you were gone.

TALIESIN: I'm listening in to this whole thing
through the earphone as I'm talking. That's how I

keep telling you how long you have, because I'm
laughing so much.

MATT: "All right. Well, then."

MARISHA: I'm going to go talk to the Sun Tree.

SAM: I thought we were going? We're leaving now?

MARISHA: Just gather your shit. I'll meet you
there.

SAM: Where?

TALIESIN and MARISHA: The Sun Tree.

LIAM: She's our ticket there.

LAURA: Don't talk to anyone, Kima.

MATT: "If we're leaving soon, I'm sticking with
you guys."

TALIESIN: I'm going to let Asum in on our plan.

LIAM: Hey, Scanlan, could you wipe Kynan's memory,
please?

SAM: Kynan?

LIAM: Yeah, he's here.

SAM: Kynan didn't really hear anything.

TALIESIN: No, I left with him.

LIAM: You left with him?

TALIESIN: I haven't been in the room because I
took him away.

LIAM: I redact that statement. Excellent.

LAURA: Yeah, that's why Percy left.

LIAM: I see. I was focused on the fire--

TALIESIN: Oh, no. I've walked Kynan to show him
how I would like things to function.

MATT: Yeah, and as you're listening in you gave
him all the instruction and he takes it in pretty

well. Jarett catches up with you, and you both
coordinate with that. All right. You head to the

Sun Tree while the rest of you gather the rest of
your materials and supplies.

LAURA: I'm going to-- well, if we have time. I'm
going to attune my cold-snap armor to me, so I'll

probably not have my bracers attuned.

MATT: Okay, so that's two damage off any of your
ranged attacks. So keep note of that.

LAURA: But I get, what, cold resistance and added
AC, or something?

TALIESIN: I'm going to attune Animus and drop the
gloves of missile snaring for this fight.

LIAM: Free wet willies.

MATT: As you attune the weapon, there's a brief
familiar dark glow on the weapon, and all the

three names that exist on the barrel all
dissipate. It's now a clean barrel.

LAURA: Oh no.

TALIESIN: Well, all right. We'll have to have a
talk about that. Is it all right if I let Asum

know what our basic plan is?

SAM: What, that we're leaving now?

TALIESIN: We're leaving now, we'll be heading
there, the fight will be tomorrow. There will be a

creature that we will lure and bait the white
dragon with, we will attack at the end. We expect

to see her participation. If we are not acutely
aware of it, all deals are off.

LIAM: Sounds good to me.

TALIESIN: I relay that information.

MATT: Okay. Do you go to Asum's room?

TALIESIN: I knock.

MATT: You knock on the door.

TALIESIN: Asum?

MATT: A voice goes, (shushes). You hear lowered
voices from the other side of the door for a

moment.

TALIESIN: I walk away, assuming that Asum will
know where to find me.

TRAVIS: That's it?

TALIESIN: I go back to gathering my things, pulling
powder and shot out of what was necessary.

MATT: Okay. About ten minutes go by, and as you're
gathering things Asum approaches. "I'm sorry,

"Percy. I was indisposed."

TALIESIN: I apologize. I hope I didn't disrupt
anything important.

MATT: "No. I was keen enough to cover, but both
the Cinder King and the Frigid Doom are under the

"impression that there is no mounting danger."

TALIESIN: Tonight, we go to Draconia.

MATT: "Very well."

TALIESIN: Tomorrow, we fight the dragon. We will
bait him with another creature of great strength--

MATT: "Might I ask what creature of great strength
you intend to bait Vorugal with?"

TALIESIN: I don't think anything you've ever heard
of before.

MATT: "Try me."

TALIESIN: What the hell. I pull out the book and
show him the picture.

SAM: (whispering) Her.

TALIESIN: Sorry. Thank you.

LAURA: Well, it's Asum right now.

LIAM: It's confusing, man.

TALIESIN: Yeah. There's a lot of gender issues in
this.

MATT: "Reaching into the Abyss! That's curious."

TALIESIN: I figured that quite possibly, in
private, you and I have the closest dispositions.

MATT: "I can see that kinship, as well."

TALIESIN: Once that fight has concluded, we mop up
whatever is left. We expect to see your

participation in some form. I understand if it
can't be direct.

MATT: "I can be of aid, I just have to remain
inconspicuous. I cannot be seen to be part of this

"confrontation."

TALIESIN: Obviously.

MATT: "And all shall be fine."

TALIESIN: We may have some extra people with us,
as well.

MATT: "This was not discussed. Who would you
intend to bring into this deal?"

TALIESIN: That, sadly, I cannot inform. Although
there will be Draconians. They are disinterested

in our politics.

MATT: "And disposable?"

TALIESIN: I would hope not. But I understand your
point of view. I will say for the sake of this

encounter, our point of view will be dominant. But
I understand and respect yours. When dealing with

ants, you must respect the needs of ants. Surely
you understand?

MATT: "I follow. All right."

TALIESIN: So there will be that. We will have a
couple of accompanying members as well, but since

you're staying hidden, it shouldn't be a problem.
I would recommend not showing up in this form, at

the very least.

MATT: "Oh, in this form? I have many forms I can
take. I have an idea. Very well. Fetch me when

"you're ready."

TALIESIN: We will be leaving on our own. You will
have to meet us there. I'm sure getting to

Draconia shouldn't be too much of a problem for
you?

MATT: "Why not travel with you and your band? That
seems like a waste of magic."

TALIESIN: It does, but sadly we are trying to keep
our own reality quiet. The needs of ants. And

also, they don't want you around. They don't trust
you.

MATT: "I understand that, but if you're going now,
it takes me at least three, four days of travel

"over the ocean to get to Draconia."

TALIESIN: Surely you can find a faster way. You
got here very quickly. You so rarely lie that I'm

so fascinated that when you do, I think I'm
starting to get your tells, just a bit of them.

MATT: "You're a funny little man."

TALIESIN: I take that as the highest compliment.

MATT: "Well, then. I'll see you tomorrow."

TALIESIN: See you tomorrow.

MATT: And Asum turns around and exits.

TALIESIN: I turn the corner, get far enough away,
and drop to my knees and breathe deeply for a

minute.

MARISHA: Well done.

TALIESIN: Head to the Sun Tree.

MATT: All right. You guys make your way to the Sun
Tree. While you're walking, Keyleth, you head

there, as well. Is there anything you wanted to do
before they arrive?

MARISHA: Yes, I wanted to go underneath in our
little Sun Tree cave that we carved out.

MATT: Okay. So you go beneath the tavern, into the
basement, down into the little tunnel beneath that

leads to the Sun Tree's roots.

MARISHA: Yeah. And I cast Commune with Nature.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: (laughs) There's so much pressure on
this. Is there a way I can put my hand inside the Sun Tree?

TALIESIN: Wow.

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: It's less of a merger and more as you touch
and connect to the roots, your consciousness and

the Sun Tree's consciousness can combine.

LAURA: You're holding the roots.

TRAVIS: Dear diary--

LAURA: Today I talked to the Sun Tree.

MARISHA: Dear Sun Tree--

SAM: It was so turgid.

TRAVIS: Turgid?

TALIESIN: It was an appropriate usage of the word!
Very well done, very good.

MATT: Yeah!

MARISHA: Okay, I'm going to cast Commune with
Nature and try and connect with the Sun Tree.

MATT: You grab the roots and feel the warmth flow
through your hands and there your consciousness

connects with that of the Sun Tree, and you are
both present in that same plant space.

MARISHA: Sun Tree?

MATT: "Hey, Keyleth."

(giggling)

MATT: "Been a while."

MARISHA: Hey Sun Tree.

MATT: "Hey, Keyleth."

MARISHA: Without burning a question, can I
personally ask you, how are you doing, man?

MATT: "Doing all right."

MARISHA: Yeah?

MATT: "A little cold, but... Whitestone."

MARISHA: Okay, man, yeah. Hey, Sun Tree?

MATT: "Yeah, Keyleth?"

MARISHA: So you're overtop all these arcane
ley-lines across the whole globe, right? I've

traveled a lot of places here lately. What are all
the cities that the other arcane ley lines fall across?

MATT: "I don't rightly know."

MARISHA: Can I sense it through the Sun Tree's
roots?

MATT: Which, as he converses with you, he says,
"I've been here a long time. Don't really get

"around much, being a tree." But you do feel this
light, fuzzy, blue, almost like a mist energy,

like a particle energy that is coalesced around
Whitestone and above it, and it shoots off in six

different directions, some that curl up
northwards, some that curl out over the ocean, and

you see them spider out in places and then go
beyond your peripheral. The ley-lines only spider

out past the Alabaster Sierras; you can't see much
further than that.

MARISHA: Are there any cities, any places of
interest I can see that we've been through before,

where they happen to cross?

MATT: Let me look at the specifics of Commune with
Nature real fast.

MARISHA: I'm trying to see if I can use the Sun
Tree to extend my vision a little further.

MATT: Unfortunately, the spell only lasts for
up to three miles.

MARISHA: Yeah. I want to extend a little further?

MATT: You sense that yes, these ley energies do
travel much further and surround the world and

make a network of various magical pathways, but
unfortunately the Sun Tree and your vision right

now doesn't go far beyond Whitestone. "Yeah. It
isn't a lot."

MARISHA: So the ziggurat, the spinning orb of
death that happens to be right underneath you, are

you in touch with what that might be feeding?

MATT: "Can't say I do."

MARISHA: Goddamn it, Sun Tree! Goddamn it!

MATT: "Keyleth, calm down. I'm happy to answer
your questions, invite you to my space. Just

"because I'm not an all-seeing tree, don't be angry
with me."

MARISHA: I'm not angry with you, Sun Tree.

MATT: "Angry in general. Just chill."

MARISHA: That's really easy for you to say, Sun
Tree.

MATT: "Yeah, it is."

(laughter)

MARISHA: Okay. All right. Sun Tree.

MATT: "Yeah, Keyleth?"

MARISHA: You're a tree from Pelor, yes?

MATT: "More or less."

MARISHA: Have there been the attention of any
other gods on Whitestone right now? That you can

sense? Or can I sense? I'm asking the Sun Tree out
of humor, but can I sense it? I'm assuming the

tree doesn't actually know fucking shit.

MATT: The tree may know a lot, just, the right
questions need to be asked. The Sun Tree says, "To

"be perfectly honest, Keyleth, even Pelor's grace
left this place hundreds of years ago. His

"presence is here in bits and pieces, but when I
was first taking seed, the gods were much more

"present, much easier to read. Kind of lonely
nowadays."

MARISHA: That's so sad.

MATT: "I know, Keyleth. I know."

MARISHA: You've got me, Sun Tree. I'm here. You
shouldn't be lonely.

MATT: "When you're around, Keyleth, nobody can be
lonely."

MARISHA: Aww, that's so-- aww.

LAURA: He's saying that as you're holding on to
his roots.

MATT: Don't make it weird, Laura.

LAURA: Sorry.

LIAM: It was weird five minutes ago, Matt!

MARISHA: Okay, Sun Tree. I don't think I have much
time left, but is there anything-- you said you're

lonely. I just want to say if you ever want to
talk, I'm here. You know you can confide in me. If

there's anything you want to say, I'm all ears,
you know?

MATT: "I appreciate that."

MARISHA: Yeah?

MATT: "You've got to come to me."

(laughter)

MATT: "But when you do, hell yeah."

MARISHA: You know, I didn't really get any of the
things I was looking for, Sun Tree, but I still

feel a little better. Thank you.

MATT: "That's all that matters, Keyleth."

MARISHA: Yeah! You're cool, Sun Tree.

MATT: "You're cool too, girl."

MARISHA: Aww! Not as cool as you.

MATT: "Probably."

MARISHA: Yeah. Okay, I'm going to be walking
through you here in a minute, so I wanted to let

you know that there's going to be eight people
going through, so don't feel alarmed.

MATT: "Oh boy."

MARISHA: Does that hurt you?

MATT: "It tingles a little."

MARISHA: Oh, okay.

MATT: "That's all right."

MARISHA: I'm sorry. I'm not going to stop doing
it, but I'm sorry.

MATT: "I appreciate it."

MARISHA: All right. Bye, Sun Tree.

MATT: "Bye, Keyleth."

LAURA: Has anybody seen Keyleth?

MATT: As you go up top, the whole group is
gathered there, currently.

TALIESIN: She's downstairs with her wood.

LAURA: Oh. Did you have fun?

LIAM: You seem way more relaxed than even an hour
ago.

TALIESIN: You smell of pine.

LAURA: And sap.

LIAM: Yep. I'll have whatever she's having.

SAM: Are we ready to do this?

LAURA: Yeah.

MARISHA: Sure.

SAM: Hey, before we go, Lady Kima. (singing) When
the gnome hits your eye like a big pizza pie,

you've been mind-melded! (speaking) I'm going to
wipe her mind. It's too risky.

TALIESIN: Of what?

SAM: Of the whole conversation. It's too risky.

TALIESIN: That's a lot of mind--

SAM: Nope! It's a ten-minute conversation.

LIAM: Ten minutes, when he wants it.

MATT: All right, what's your spell DC on this?

SAM: 21.

MATT: Well, you didn't have your hand cone out,
though, when you did it.

SAM: Oh, you're going to bust me on that? 19,
then.

(laughter)

MATT: Kima's eyes blink for a second.

"Didn't I warn you, Scanlan Shorthalt, 
not to try and wipe my mind?!"

SAM: (yelps)

MATT: She's taking a hit. Natural 20.

(gasps)

MATT: Right there. Okay.

SAM: (nervous laugh) This is how I die.

TALIESIN: I'm okay with this.

MARISHA: I was feeling relaxed.

MATT: You take 35 points of damage. 27 of it blunt
damage from the actual impact with the hammer; the

rest of it's thunder damage. As her Holy Thunder
Maul slams into the side of your head and sends

you skidding ten feet across the ground, coming to
a halt.

TALIESIN: That felt fair.

LAURA: Well, he deserved it.

MATT: "Damn right, he did."

LIAM: Well, he had good-- there's a lot at
stake--

TRAVIS: Vax. Let it be.

LAURA: How about we get through the tree before we
talk anymore?

MATT: "I love you guys, but--"

LAURA: Yeah.

TALIESIN: Oh, no, he had that coming.

TRAVIS: It was a good swing.

MATT: "Thank you. I've been tense recently,
anyway."

LIAM: I pull the gnome up and cast Lay on Hands
and give him ten hit points. You all right,

buddy?

SAM: (groaning) You passed the test. You're worthy
of coming with us on the journey.

TALIESIN: We can only apologize for him so much.

MATT: "This is true. Shall we get on with it?"

TRAVIS and TALIESIN: Yes.

LAURA: We're popping in far enough away, right? In
the tree grove up above the chasm?

LIAM: There was that sideways tree?

MATT: The sideways tree was where you came
through, but you found a tree above that you could

get to.

MARISHA: And I grew a tree, right? Didn't I grow
some trees?

MATT: Yeah.

MARISHA: I pick one of those trees.

MATT: Okay. You finish your Transport Via Plants
spell. The portal opens. You all begin darting

through, Kima darts through. Who's the last one
out?

TALIESIN: I'll be the last one out.

MATT: Make a perception check.

TALIESIN: No. 11.

MATT: 11. Okay. You dart through the portal before
it closes. You all emerge from the other side. The

cold, snowy ice hits you. There is actually a bit
of a snowstorm that is blowing through right now

as you come on the other side. Immediately, the
wind chill hits you, and it gets extremely cold.

It was darker in the day; it was starting to get
later in the afternoon. Here, it is night. It is

blustery. Not quite blizzard, but definitely a
heavy snow. Decent wind, night, on the bluff right

outside the ravine that dips down into the
remnants of Draconia, and the small, icy throne

that Vorugal currently calls home.

TALIESIN: Let's find a place to hide the mansion
and sleep.

MARISHA: What time is it here?

MATT: It's night. You don't know what hour, but
it's black night.

MARISHA: I can scry once we get in the mansion.

LAURA: Can you set us up?

SAM: Sure, yeah. I'll poof the mansion.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: Also, quickly, I've attuned Whisper, and
I've changed the Deathwalker's Ward to cold.

LAURA: What's my armor class now that I've put the
cold-snap armor on?

MATT: You had armor on before, right?

LAURA: I did, so is it up two points from that?

MATT: The armor was plus two, right? You have the
item card for it? Then yeah, your armor class

would be up by two.

All right, so. You guys enter the mansion. Kima
comes in, looking around. "Well, that's pretty

"damn swanky!"

TALIESIN: Yeah. Shut the door.

MATT: (shushes)

SAM: I was going to show you to your room--

MATT: "No."

SAM: All right, well, then you can sleep in the
fucking living room.

MATT: "Fine. I've slept in worse."

SAM: Great. Servants! Don't help her.

MATT: "I don't need any help." She leans up
against the side of the foyer wall and starts

taking her armor off. She's keeping an eye on
Scanlan the whole time.

LAURA: Kima, there's extra rooms upstairs.

MATT: "I'm good here."

TRAVIS: Are you hungry at all?

MATT: "I actually am pretty hungry, yeah."

TRAVIS: I'll find food for you. I go for the
kitchen.

MATT: "Thank you." What else do you guys want to
get done in preparation for this?

LIAM: Do we want to have a Heroes' Feast because
of the terror that dragons inflict upon all those who--

SAM: Is it prepared?

LIAM: What else are we saving it for, other than
this?

SAM: No, I mean, she has to prepare it ahead of
time.

MARISHA: Can I cast it ahead of time? Sorry. Can I
cast Heroes' Feast at a higher level?

MATT: You can, yeah. But do you have it prepared?

MARISHA: No, I brought Transport via Plants. I can
do it in the morning.

LAURA: But it uses one of your spells? Is that all
right? I mean, it's pretty important.

MARISHA: It is pretty important. Can I do it as a
ritual spell?

MATT: I don't think it works that way unless it
says it's a ritual. Sorry. Yeah, Heroes' Feast is

not a ritual, so you have to have it prepared.

SAM: You can do it tomorrow morning, or not at
all.

MARISHA: I'm going to scry.

MATT: Okay. What are you going to scry?

MARISHA: I don't want to necessarily scry on
Vorugal, but can I scry in her--

TALIESIN: She has guards. We also have the leader
of the dragonborn.

MARISHA: What do you mean?

TALIESIN: We can see where he is right now.

MARISHA: Instead of spying on Vorugal?

LAURA: Who? What?

SAM: Wasn't the leader of the dragonborn a female,
first of all? And wasn't Vorugal a male?

LAURA: She was. Vorugal's a male.

MATT: Tooma is the leader of the-- They're not
Draconians. These are the Ravenites. Draconians

were essentially wiped out. Ravenites currently
hold the ravine.

LAURA: Scry on Tooma.

MARISHA: I can scry a few times.

MATT: Just so you're aware, you can only scry on
someone on the same plane of existence, so you'll

have to step outside the mansion to scry.

MARISHA: Oh. I'll step outside the mansion to
scry.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: I step outside the mansion, and I take a
good, hard look around.

LAURA: I'll sit in the door, and I'll keep an eye
on this.

MATT: Okay, both you guys make perception checks.

SAM: I'm also going out there with them.

TRAVIS: I'm in the kitchen.

LAURA: Natural 20.

MARISHA: Hey! 14.

SAM: Ten.

MATT: What's the total on that for you, Vex?

LAURA: 33.

MATT: Okay. For what distance that you can see,
there is no light visible down in the ravine. It

is pitch-black darkness. You can see around you,
there are the trees that you guys came through, a

couple of other barren, broken trees that have
been long dead or at least leafless for a while,

slowly curling over the edge of the ravine. The
land has eroded over time and they've slowly begun

to move with it. You don't see anything else in
the immediate vicinity. It is freezing cold,

though. You're doing okay because of your armor.
You're a little chilly, and you're shaking

naturally from the wind chill as you're preparing
the ritual. You begin to focus on the scrying. Who

are you scrying on, currently?

MARISHA: First, I'm going to scry on Tooma.

MATT: All right. As the cold begins to hit, the
tips of your fingers begin to go numb, you finish

the ritual. Your eyes glaze over white, and your
vision projects itself into the darkness in front

of you. It rushes down like a sudden drop of a
roller coaster into the bottom of the ravine, and

is rushed to the side, inside the warm interior of
the wall on the western end of the ravine.

Darting through a number of familiar tunnels, you
find yourself back to the small village that was

built by the Ravenites, through the central
circular opening where the small fountain was, and

you're thrust into the tent where you first met
Tooma. There you see upon the throne is Tooma with

four guards around, currently draped over and
asleep. Slowly snoring as her head droops.

MARISHA: What's going on around her? Do people
seem to be preparing for a battle?

MATT: You can't really tell. You only have focus
on her. You see very fuzzy things. There's not a

lot of action around that you can tell.

MARISAH: I'm going to do it again.

MATT: The scry finishes. Your fingers are now
getting more cold.

MARISHA: I take the cloak and wrap it around as
much as I can.

MATT: Putting your flame hands to warm yourself up
a bit.

MARISHA: Now, I'm going to scry on that outside
entrance to Vorugal's lair.

MATT: Well, Vorugal's lair is in the open of the
ravine. It's a little ways up.

LARUA: Yeah, remember, it's that raised ice
platform.

MATT: Where you guys are up on top, it goes down
into the ravine, and the ravine curls through and

splits off in different directions. In the center
of where a section of the ravine forks off, in the

center there is that cluster of ice with all the
spikes off it on top of the rubble of one of the

central islands of Draconia. That's where Vorugal
is currently living.

MARISHA: Okay, because we were in there earlier,
so can I scry on the location? Not trying to focus

necessarily on Vorugal?

TALIESIN: There will be guards at the guard
stations all around the outside.

MATT: Generally, a particular creature you can
choose from. I can let you scry on the location,

but I'll have to make you roll for it.

LAURA: I think that's dangerous.

MARISHA: Scrying on the dragon, or the location,
or both?

LAURA: Both. Anything near Vorugal, I feel like
it's dangerous.

MARISHA: Not knowing could be more dangerous.

LAURA: Plus, Thordak has those scrying balls
within the location.

MARISHA: Did Vorugal have any other allies? Do you
remember some of the guards?

TALIESIN: Just the guards, and it's not really
allies at all. Everybody will turn the moment it looks--

MARISHA: All right. I abandon the campaign and go
back inside.

MATT: Okay. Anything else you guys wish to do to
prepare for the evening, before the morning comes?

SAM: Oh, I'm going to try to load the gun.

MATT: Okay. Make a dexterity check. Add your
dexterity modifier to a d20 roll.

SAM: 16.

MATT: 16. You take a moment and take one of the
pistols. The little barrel clicks out, and you go,

"Oh!" You take--

TALIESIN: That's your dex save, not your dex
modifier.

SAM: Oh! Thank you. 11.

MATT: 11? You've seen Percy load a bunch, so you
go and take this small bit of powder, put it in,

put the bullet inside. It slides in, and it seems
fine.

SAM: Okay. That's it. Holstered.

MATT: All right. Anything else, guys?

TALIESIN: I have to sleep it off. I feel terrible,
so I'm just going to sleep.

MARISHA: Where exactly are we going to-- Do we
have a plan on dropping this beast?

TALIESIN: We're going to tell Tooma to tell the
dragon that they've found something to kill, and

take him out into the wastelands where we're going
to release it.

MARISHA: Should we go try and talk to Tooma now?

TALIESIN: We could send, I would say, Vax--

LAURA: I think Scanlan, Polymorphed, something
very teeny.

SAM: What's going on? Are we going to go talk to
Tooma?

LAURA: And let her know the plan of releasing--

TRAVIS: If you leave the safety of the mansion,
you have the chance of being ambushed at any time

by a fucking dragon.

SAM: Can we all go as a group tomorrow? No?

LAURA: No, we can't wander on down into Vorugal's
territory.

SAM: How far are we from Tooma?

TALIESIN: Very close.

LAURA: That's why I said, if you Polymorph into a
teeny, flying bug--

MARISHA: Fly there. I can Polymorph you.

LIAM: You can be invisible, as well, and I'm very
sneaky.

SAM: You could fly.

LAURA: Dragons see a lot. A lot.

LIAM: Well, the dragon would know if I was really
a mouse or not, though, as well.

SAM: We're not going near the dragon. We're going
to see Tooma.

LAURA: Pretty close to the dragon.

MARISHA: Yeah, in the same area.

MATT: Maybe a half- to quarter-mile away from the
entrance to Tooma's area.

LIAM: Got that Dust of Tracelessness?

SAM: We could fly in as little birds or something.
Stay low in the ravines, out of sight.

LIAM: I don't know how to un-Polymorph myself. One
of us has to talk, and you'll do the talking, yeah?

MARISHA: I can drop Polymorph as long as you guys
keep me in contact with the earpieces.

SAM: We'll be out of range.

MARISHA: Then I don't know.

LIAM: Hit us with the Dust of Tracelessness. You
turn invisible. We'll hoof it.

SAM: Sure.

LIAM: Yeah.

TRAVIS: All of us?

TALIESIN: No, just them. If they run into a
problem--

LIAM: We're shit out of luck.

MARISHA: Are the earpieces going to stay in
range?

LIAM: Not in a quarter-mile.

LAURA: Be safe. This is dangerous.

SAM: All right.

MATT: They don't work from within the mansion to
outside the mansion. It's a different plane of

existence, technically.

MARISHA: Then I'm going to go Minxie form, my
white snow-tiger, and I will stay within earshot

range so that way if anything goes bad, I can
alert the rest of the group.

LAURA: How are you going to stay in earshot?

MARISHA: Earpieces.

LAURA: Just from the top of the cavern?

MARISHA: I'll follow as close as I can.

LIAM: With Dust of Tracelessness.

TALIESIN: Should be fine.

LIAM: Hit us, Grog.

MARISHA: Let's go without having some sort of--

TRAVIS: You know, the Dust of Tracelessness you
sprinkle behind you.

MATT: Yeah, it gets rid of tracks. Makes you
harder to track.

LAURA: I can cast Past Without a Trace on you.

SAM: I can make us both invisible, so we'll be
plenty stealthy.

TRAVIS: And real quick, we've got to tell Tooma
that we're coming? You don't think if we start

attacking her dragon, she'll be like, "Oh! It's
those fucks from two weeks ago!"

TALIESIN: We're not attacking the dragon.

LAURA: That's true. If we bust out the thing and
then--

SAM: No, but they need their people all ready to
attack.

LIAM: We want them to know to stay clear, to not
attack this thing if they can help it.

SAM: Also, they might be able to tell us where we
should release the beast.

MARISHA: Yeah, they would know. They've been
tracking down animals for it to hunt for a while.

LIAM: It's a worthwhile risk.

MARISHA: They have to tell him where to find it.

MATT: You're going there right now?

LIAM: Yeah, gather up. You, Scanlan, here.

LAURA: I don't know if Pass Without a Trace works
if I'm not near you.

MARISHA: I think you have to cast it on yourself.

SAM: We'll be invisible. It'll be fine. We're the
best in the business. We walked around here

completely without any stealth protection last
time. We did fine, and we didn't even know

anything about the culture or the people.

LAURA: Yeah, but there was no dragon last time.

MARISHA: I can enhance one of y'all's abilities so
you have advantage on rolls for a stat. I can do

that to one of you.

SAM: Maybe you should enhance my stealth ability.

MARISHA: That's what I was thinking. I'm going to
cast Enhance Ability, and that's a dex ability,

the Cat's Grace or whatever it was? Cat's Grace on
Scanlan. I'm going to turn into Minxie.

LIAM: Can I do the same? Does that stuff stack, or
no? I could cast Bless, do the same thing, help

with saves and--

MATT: Yeah.

LIAM: All right, I Bless the three of us.

SAM: Oh, thanks. I will give us both Invisibility,
level three Invisibility.

MATT: Okay. Both of you go invisible. You turn
Minxie. What are you doing?

MARISHA: I'm going to stealth as far behind them
as I can.

MATT: You guys are all stealthing along the top of
the ravine?

SAM: Yeah. The top of the ravine? In the ravine,
right?

MATT: How are you getting down?

SAM: Oh. Oh, it's steep?

MATT: It's a cliff. It's the Grand Canyon.

LIAM: I shoot out the wings, and I glide Scanlan
and I invisibly down to the bottom.

MATT: Okay. You guys disappear down into the
ravine. You lose eye contact with them once

they're outside of 120 feet of you.

MARISHA: I'll stalk the top of the ravine and keep
an ear open.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: And keep an eye out for anything that
looks horrifying and bad.

MATT: Okay. Make a--

SAM: Horrifying check.

MATT: Make a perception check.

SAM: Who, us? Her? Everyone?

MATT: Either of you.

SAM: 16.

LIAM: Perception, you said? 22.

MATT: 22. All right. You glide down, and it takes
you a moment, but you do, over the next 30 minutes

or so it takes you to finally find the area that's
familiar to you in this dark, that is where you

guys previously were. You're having to look around
for quite a bit, and it's a lot of having to go

back up again and glide around. It's a big space,
and in the dark, in the middle of the night, it's

very difficult for you to figure out any sign of
where you previously tread. You do manage to find

it, but you're now looking at-- how long does
Invisibility last?

SAM: One hour.

MATT: Okay, so you guys are about halfway through
Invisibility's functionality.

LIAM: And halfway through flying.

MATT: Marisha, make a survival wilderness check.

LAURA: I want to sit on the door.

MATT: A stoop?

MARISHA: What do I use? Just nature?

MATT: This is wisdom survival.

MARISHA: 15.

MATT: Okay. Best you can, you begin to follow the
edge of the ravine and try and do your best,

remembering the path of the ravine based on where
you were previously and taking in what sort of

outcroppings and structures were familiar to you.
You think you may have found, over time, something

near the entrance. You're not sure. Best you can
do right now.

You guys eventually find the entrance where you
were led in by the rest of the Ravenites. You zip

through, and it begins to open up into the
subterranean town, if you will. It is very quiet.

There are a few walking, appear to be
sentries, haphazardly armed and armored. But it

seems like the majority of those here are
sleeping.

LIAM: Whatever we do, we don't want to scare the
shit out of everybody and get attacked.

SAM: No. Should we become visible, or wait until
we get right up next to Tooma and then become

visible?

LIAM: I think we go visible now.

SAM: All right. Okay, yes, let's do it. I'll drop
Invisibility.

MATT: Both of you guys appear. Do you begin to
walk toward the central--

SAM: Yeah, so is anyone awake?

LIAM: No, we just hear quiet underground.

MATT: It's a quiet, underground tunnel with a
bunch of huts and tents and small abodes that are

all silent. There are two wandering sentries that
are armored. As soon as you begin walking through,

they both turn and look, and see you.

SAM: Hi. Hello.

MATT: Spears out.

SAM: It's fine. Yes, we're friends of Tooma. We've
come to parlay.

MATT: "Put your weapons down."

SAM: I have no weapons. I play fiddles.

MATT: "I see a sword at your side."

SAM: Would you like me to drop it to the floor?

MATT: "Yes."

SAM: All right. Well, I'm already being asked to
take off my belt.

MATT: "You, too."

LIAM: All right.

SAM: We're friends of Tooma. We have an important
mission.

MATT: Persuasion check.

SAM: 22.

MATT: (Draconic words) The other guard walks off.
There's an awkward three-minute beat where he's

staring at both of you intently, with the spear
out. Eventually the other guard comes back and

talks back to him in a language you don't
understand. (Draconic words)

SAM: Oh yeah, we don't speak this.

LAURA: I should've gone. I really should've gone.

MATT: "It is a strange hour to drop by, but Tooma
will see you. Leave your weapons where they lay."

LIAM: You're going to take good care of them?
You're going to leave them there?

MATT: "They will stay where they lay."

LIAM: All right.

MATT: "Come with us." Both of them stand behind
you guys, spears to your back, and nudge you to

continue forward. You make your way to Tooma's
tent. The four guards inside are there, with their

spears at the ready. Two of them have shields and
they're-- not an aggressive stance, but definitely

alert and making sure that you're aware, by their
physicality, that they're paying attention to you

and are ready to deal with anything you bring.

Across the way, there's a small fire in the center
of the room, a small fire pit that is largely

burned out now to small embers. The smell of
smoke and sage is very prominent and strong in the

room. Tooma, you can see, is now cupping a small
goblet made of simple wood. You see steam rising

off of it, and she's sipping.

LIAM: I'll leave this up to you, Mr. Reynolds.

SAM: Lady Tooma, sorry to wake you out of your
slumber.

MATT: "It is a very strange hour."

SAM: Well, where we come from, it's a totally
different time. We've come to complete our promise

to you. The fact that we are here should give you
at least some confidence that we are men of our words.

MATT: "Aye, it was close."

SAM: As a show of good faith, could you please
instruct your guards to go get our weapons and

bring them close to us? Not for any use, we just
want them close by.

MATT: "You are not among enemies. Your weapons
will stay where they are while we speak."

SAM: We really would like them close to us.

MATT: "Then you should leave."

SAM: All right. Then we'll leave, and the dragon
will torment your people forever.

MATT: "That is your choice."

LIAM: We came with a whole fucking plan. Do you
want to hear about it?

MATT: "I would love to hear about it, but I do not
talk to people who stumble into my home before the

"sun rises with weapons and arms at their side."

SAM: We are not trying to have weapons by our
side, we want them close at hand. I don't trust

them with people I don't know.

MATT: "They will not be touched! Everyone is
sleeping, foolish gnome."

LIAM: We came to report, and we'll get out of
here, all right?

SAM: Here's the plan. We'll be quick so you can
get back to sleep. Tomorrow morning, we're going

to release a beast that will, we hope, lure the
dragon out of its lair. We want you and your

people at the ready to attack. Can that be done?

MATT: "That can be done, yes."

SAM: And where would you recommend we release this
beast?

MATT: Her eyes curl up with a slight, slick sound
of older, not-as-moisturized lizard eyes. You see

these eyelids click across as she thinks. "Across,
to the northern side of the ravine, the ramp leads

"up. Up that ramp, you will see a circle of stones,
a hundred feet across. That should suffice."

SAM: Insight check.

MATT: Make it.

SAM: 16.

MATT: 16?

SAM: I get a whisper! Who will talk about Loot
Crate?

LIAM: Man, so many good things about Loot Crate.

TRAVIS: It's a horror theme this month, you guys.
Friday the 13th. Halloween. Nightmare on Elm

Street. Texas Chainsaw Massacre.

TALIESIN: I'm a Halloween fan, myself.

SAM: Is there any particular time that the dragon
would be hungry for a hunt?

MATT: "The dragon is always hungry for a hunt.
It's hungry now, I'm sure."

SAM: And once this hunt happens, and hopefully
weakens the dragon, will you be ready to pounce?

MATT: "We will be ready."

SAM: All right. How do we get word to you that
we're in position?

MATT: "We'll be ready."

SAM: Okay. Anything else?

LIAM: The thing we're going to release is gnarly,
so give it a little bit of space.

MATT: "I will tell my men."

LIAM: All right, good chat. Scanlan, want to head
back to the pad?

SAM: Unless you'd like to talk about anything else
tonight?

MATT: "Please, leave me."

SAM: Not a morning person? Evening person?

LIAM: Hey, let's go get our shit and get out of
here.

SAM: All right.

LIAM: I grab him by the scruff of the neck and
start pulling him out of the room.

MATT: You guys leave the tent, make your way back.
Your weapons are right where you dropped them.

SAM: (hyperventilating)

LIAM: I'm so sorry, Simon. I should never have
left you in there. Love you.

MATT: You make your way out toward where the
cavern opens into the ravine itself. The snow is

still a good foot and a half up now, up the
ravine. What do you guys do?

LIAM: How long has it been since I bamfed out the
wings? An hour?

MATT: I'd say it's getting pretty close. You're
not quite sure of the exact time.

LIAM: Start going up toward the ridge.

SAM: I hope this doesn't make us fall!

MATT: All right. You take the wind, the cold wind
hitting the wings. Even though they're an

extension of the armor, you feel this twinge of
cold hit you. Thankfully you have your resistance

up, so it's helping with that.

SAM: One more Invisibility for both of us.

MATT: All right.

LAURA: That's important.

MATT: Thank you for noting that.

LIAM: This is intense.

TRAVIS: (laughing) His hand was like, all right.

MATT: All right. You guys invisibly coast up
through the ravine.

TRAVIS: Did you hear the garment of the reaper as
he walked past you?

(laughter)

TRAVIS: "Thank you for noting that."

MATT: Making your way up onto the top of the
cliffside, into a soft bank of snow. Keyleth,

you do hear the (soft impact) of several footfalls
maybe 40 feet to the left of you. You look over to

see an indentation in the snow.

MARISHA: I start pacing that way, assuming it's
them.

MATT: You guys watch Minxie emerge from the
darkness and snow.

MARISHA: (meows)

SAM: Hi, Random Cat Who Is Definitely Supposed To
Be Part of This Landscape. Let's go.

MARISHA: I got this form from being in the
mountains of my hometown, so yes.

MATT: You hear, (nonsense meowing).

(laughter)

SAM: Can we ride?

LIAM: Yeah, can we get a lift?

SAM: I can, probably. I'm little.

MATT: You both could ride Minxie.

LIAM: You're massive, aren't you?

MARISHA: They can ride me? I'm that big?

MATT: I mean, not full, but they could both be on
your back and you'd be like, (strained noises).

You could carry them along.

MARISHA: (strained noises) Back hurts. Come on.

MATT: You eventually bring them back to the
outside of the door, with Vex waiting for you on

the stoop. You guys make your way into the warm
interior of Scanlan's mansion, where Kima is

currently de-armored and snoring, leaning against
the foyer wall. You guys prepare yourselves for an

evening's rest, for tomorrow, you battle one,
possibly two dragons.

And that's where we're going to leave the session
for tonight. We'll be back here next week for

whatever this chaos is going to be.

SAM: Are you ready to rumble?!

MATT: We've got Yenk the goristro coming in versus
Vorugal, the Frigid Doom, versus Raishan, the

Diseased Deceiver.

LAURA: The Diseased--?

MATT: The Diseased Deceiver.

MARISHA: The Diseased Deceiver! Well, I'm going to
write that down.

TALIESIN: Nothing is going to go wrong. Everything
is great.

TRAVIS: And we set ourselves up for it.

SAM: I think we've got a really solid plan.

LIAM: Two massive enemies.

TALIESIN: And an army.

SAM: Also, there's a really good chance that I
won't be able to summon that thing, and then we'll

have to improvise.

LAURA: Oh god, I didn't think about that.

MATT: Don't roll low. Don't roll low, Sam.
Please don't roll low. That would be so bad.

SAM: Or so great!

MATT: Or so great.

MARISHA: Can I use Enhance Ability to help him out
with his spellcasting?

SAM: The thing has a DC. A very high DC.

MATT: You're probably pretty good because you have
a high enough charisma. For you, Enhance Ability,

let's see.

LAURA: Can you inspire yourself when you're
casting a spell?

SAM: I don't know, can I?

MATT: Let me look at the rules for this. It should
say on the scroll. What do you have to roll?

SAM: I didn't bring any of my stuff tonight.

MATT: Actually, Enhance Ability might help with
that. It does give advantage on checks to the

specific ability, which would be charisma. So it
would be Eagle's Splendor, you would get advantage

on charisma checks.

SAM: Eagle's Splendor?

MARISHA: Yeah, they've got fancy names for each
one, like Cat's Grace, Eagle's Splendor.

MATT: So in theory, that could help. We'll define
it more. I'll look at the scroll I wrote up, look

at the rule, make sure we confirm that before next
episode, but yes. That is probably a possibility.

And if this is an ability check, you could also
inspire yourself with a d12.

MARISHA: Honey badger Spock, is that what you just
said?

MATT: Anyway, start thinking how you're going to
handle this next week, guys. You've got a week to

pull this together.

MARISHA: Yeah, we can talk this time!

LIAM: Sure. We're in the mansion.

MATT: Yeah, you guys are having a whole night
where you can work this out.

TALIESIN: Yeah, and I'm annoyed that I know what
that perception check was about, and that Percy

doesn't know. It really annoys me.

MATT: You don't know.

TALIESIN: Yeah, I do.

MATT: Anyway, guys, well done. Great game tonight.
Thank you guys for watching. We'll be back here

next week, on Thursday. Is it Thursday yet?

[music]