MATT: Hello and welcome to tonight's episode of
Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice

actors sit around and play Dungeons and Dragons.
My name is Matthew Mercer, the Dungeon Master and

the person unable to find a barber who understands
"leave it long."

(laughter)

MATT: But that's okay; it'll grow.

TRAVIS: Time jump, backwards.

LIAM: You look handsome in any hair.

MATT: It's okay. But anyway, welcome. Before we
dive into tonight's episode, in which we have our

fantastic Scanlan Shorthalt. "Scanlan Sharthard"
would be a much more apt name. Here via satellite.

Hi, Sam.

SAM: What's up, guys?

MATT: Glad you could join us.

LIAM: Wow, look at all that white and pink.

LAURA: He looks like he is in Miami.

MARISHA: The white and pink contrasting with the
fur is very confusing to my brain.

LIAM and LAURA: (hum "Axel F")

MATT: (singing) No one watching is old enough to
know what that thing is. Yeah, a few people do. And

thank you. I know. All right, so first and
foremost, let me get through our announcements real

fast. Let's see. We have very few tickets left for the
live show at GenCon, which we're excited for next

week, guys; it's going to be a lot of fun. We're
excited to meet everybody at GenCon. We have our

campaign guide debuting there physically at the
booth. We have a panel, we have a bunch of fun

stuff coming up, so excited to see you guys out
there.

MARISHA: It's going to be so much fun.

MATT: Let's see. Merch-wise. Laura.

LAURA: Hi!

MARISHA: Oh man.

LAURA: We have something to show you guys. You
just wait. Hey guys, why don't you roll that

footage?

MATT: "Hello, Tal'Doreians, and we have an
exciting new product that we want to share with

"you today on Gilmore's Glorious QVC. What you see
here is a beautiful Major Arcana Tarot Deck

"featuring some of the most prominent figures of
who's-who in picturesque Tal'Dorei.

"Painted by the brilliant Lady Ioana Muresan,
printed on the finest cardstock parchment with

"glittering gold foil, imported from the mines of
Kraghammer. This is truly a showstopper for any

"high society soiree. You're not just telling their
fortunes, you're bedazzling their future.

"Now, today we're offering this beautiful purple
and gold deluxe edition as well as-- that's it,

"actually. I wouldn't offer any other than the
finest edition at my store. The going market

"retail price is four platinum or 40 gold pieces or
400 silver pieces or 4,000 copper pieces, but

"today we are giving you the special Gilmore's
Glorious QVC value of-- Sherri, no, we're still

"filming those. Please, you're getting them all
smudgy!"

(beep)

MATT: "The special Gilmore's Glorious QVC value of
24 gold pieces and 99 copper. That's right! Just

"two and a half platinum pieces! But that offer
only lasts until the disclosed amount of seconds

"runs out on the timer in the corner. Scry now or come
down and visit me, Gilmore, at Gilmore's Glorious

"Goods in the Abdar's Promenade district of Emon."

LAURA: Oh, these tarot cards? Hold on, let me open
it up, since you didn't see enough of it in that

amazing commercial.

TRAVIS: Oh my god, they're so shiny.

LAURA: Liam, tell us about the artist.

LIAM: Oh, the artist, Ioana Muresan, who is a long
time Critter and has done a lot of art for our

show, and we love her, and she did such a amazing
job. Thank you. Look at this!

LAURA: Go check them out. They're in the store
right now. They're amazing. All of the other stuff

that we had is still in the store, as well,
including this fabulous necklace. And the posters

shipped, so get ready to get them. Or maybe they're
shipping tomorrow, something like that. I don't

remember. But they're going out. And then the
aprons are shipping at the end of next week, so

you'll be getting those soon, too.

MATT: That new card smell. The gold gilding at the
sides is so cool.

LIAM: It's got gilding on the sides. Everything
shines.

MATT: Gilmore's Glorious Gold Gilding. As a person
who enjoys collecting cool major arcana, this

makes me so happy.

TRAVIS: Yeah, baby.

LIAM: I'm not going to play. I'm just gonna look at
these.

MATT: Thank you, Ioana Muresan. Your work is
amazing.

LAURA: You're amazing.

MATT: All righty. Critical Role podcast up to
episode 30 is available. We're working tight on

the next batch of ten. Will have announcements
very soon for that. Let's see. People who are Alpha

users, we have all the back episodes of Critical
Role, all the way up from one to 107 available on

Alpha. They retroactively added all the bells and
whistles, HP trackers, all that fun stuff,

conditions, all the little fun things for the
entire show. They just finished it. So you have

that waiting for you if you ever wanted to binge
again.

LIAM: They added Horshack back into the cast.
That's a reference that nobody in the audience

got.

LAURA: I don't even understand that reference,
bro.

LIAM: Yeah, I know how much older than you I am.

MATT: That's okay. Let's see. Do we have a Talks
Machina next week?

TALIESIN: We do.

MATT: Yes. So we have Talks Machina at 7:00pm next
Tuesday, Pacific. We have Brian Foster, who will

be returning for the glory. And then I think
that's it. I think that's all of our announcements

for the evening. That being the case, let's go
ahead and pull ourselves in this evening to

tonight's episode of Critical Role.

[dramatic music]

MATT: Hello and welcome back. Goddamn it. (sighs)
Welcome back. I'll remember that. Your dungeon

master will remember this.

So. Last we left off, Vox Machina, in trying to
find a way to seal off the growing threat of

Vecna, now restored to physical form and seeking
ascension and achieving it, you've gone to a

number of the deities across the Exandria pantheon
of the Prime Gods. Gaining some blessings and

gaining bits of essence from these deities to
create something called a Prime Trammel, an item

that was used previously during the Calamity to
seal one of the betrayer gods and could possibly

put an end to Vecna's newly ascended form and
reign as the only god on the Prime Material plane

across the Divine Gate.

Information given to you by the Knowing Mistress
sent you beneath an underwater volcano known as

Scaldseat, where you proceeded to learn how to
breathe water and then step into toxic fume-filled

tunnels, where you proceeded to breathe through the
water via Grog's jug. Very clever. But

finding your way through a short battle with some
of the indigenous life forms there, a mother and

two children magma bulettes. You headed down
deeper into the volcanic caverns of Scaldseat,

eventually finding a long-sealed series of
chambers by the Allhammer, the deity for craft,

family, and legacy, where somewhere supposedly
beneath this volcano and hopefully within these

long-sealed chambers lies the Core Anvil, where
these Prime Trammels can be constructed.

As you made your way through here, hearing the
undulating reverberating pounding of some distant

piece of machinery, it seemed, heading down the
stairs you were put into a hexagonal chamber which

had a square of coals and above that, X bars
against the wall where in the center you saw a

gold inlaid seal, almost. What's the word I'm
looking for? An empty triangular shape, a pyramid

inverted within this golden seal. And a series of
these iron warriors that were embedded in the

walls. Behind the stairway, you saw, and you
identified upon seeing it, means of smelting metal

and other forms of material. When Percival was
inspecting one of these warriors, it immediately

came to life, and you watched as the glowing
outline of each one of these ten-foot-tall,

12-foot-tall metallic warriors glowed bright
orange. They each emerged from the walls with

these large two-handed greatswords at their side
and immediately began to incite conflict.

And that's where we left off, so to begin this
fray: Where are you guys placed, currently?

Percival, you would probably be right about where
that guy emerged.

TALIESIN: I would probably be about there.

LAURA: You were on the wall.

TALIESIN: I had my boots on, so I was up by his
face.

MATT: Okay, so we'll put you there. Oh god. Here
you go. Grog was by the smelter.

LAURA: I feel like I had been looking at the
thing. The big empty pyramid triangle thing.

MATT: So you'd be over in this area.

MARISHA: I feel like I was with Vex, maybe on the
other side. Yeah.

LAURA: I was on my broom, because I had been
hovering looking at it.

MATT: Fair enough. So you'd probably be about--

LAURA: About there, then.

LIAM: I know that I had just poofed the wings out and
I think I was inspecting one of the big metal men

before it came out of the wall. I don't really
remember which.

MATT: Most likely one of the ones that was not
attended by another member of the party. So we'll

say about here. And Scanlan, whereabouts were
you?

SAM: You know, near things. Can't really see too
well, so put me where-- Let's see. I was at the

door when we opened it and then I was beautiful.
And now I'm not as beautiful. So put me near the

door.

MATT: Near the door? So we'll put you over in this
one here.

TALIESIN: So all of their faces are indented?

MATT: Yeah, each one of them, as opposed to the
other warriors you saw in the chambers that led

down into this area, have no faces. Instead where
you see are an empty void triangular like the

large seal, but vacuous.

TRAVIS: But matches the same shape?

LIAM: They didn't Man-E-Faces around? I'm
misremembering that? Maybe I just really like

Man-E-Faces.

MATT: Which is a good thing. But regardless, I
would like you all to roll initiative.

LAURA: Not so soon! (grumbling)

TRAVIS: Is their head height about the same height
as the seal and the crossbeams?

MATT: The seal is a little bit higher than where
their heads are. All right, so 25 to 20.

LAURA: 23.

TRAVIS: 17.

MATT: 20 to 15?

TALIESIN: 16.

MATT: All right, so we have Grog. 15 to ten?

SAM: 12.

LIAM: Oh sorry, I was looking at a book. 18.
Sorry.

MATT: All righty. Keyleth, what'd you get?

MARISHA: Five. I don't want to talk about it.

MATT: Well, that being the case. As these large
metallic warriors are emerging from the sides of the

chamber, wrenching the large metal blades, these
large rectangular almost slab-like swords, bladed

on each side, Vex, you're up first. What are you
doing?

LAURA: Oh god.

MARISHA: What do we do?

TALIESIN: What do you do, hot shot?

LAURA: I want to attack them. I'm going to attack
the one next to Percy. Attack-style. I'm going to

Hunter's Mark him and then I'm going to attack
him. I'm going to do this, and then this, and then

this.

TRAVIS: What are things like this considered?
Creatures or golems?

MATT: Constructs.

LAURA: God dang it! That was a miss; it was a one.
It was a natural one.

MATT: All right, yeah, so you do actually pull
back the arrow and it strikes true. However, the

armored plating is so strong that the arrow
shatters across the front of its armored chest.

LAURA: Fuck! I do it again.

MATT: All right, second shot.

LAURA: Oh my god. 21.

MATT: 21 hits.

LAURA: Okay, well that's good. Oh my god, I'm
going to scream. Yeah, I know, bro. You're not

bro, you're hubby.

TRAVIS: She called me "bro." Game of Thrones is
obviously back on the air.

LAURA: 14. Don't say other numbers! 14 plus seven
is 21. 24.

MATT: 24 points of damage. All righty. And are you
going to stay wherever you are, or do you want

to move?

LAURA: How high is the ceiling?

MATT: The ceiling is about 30 feet up.

LAURA: Yeah, I'm going to fly up.

MATT: 25 to 30 feet.

LAURA: All right. I'm going to go to the roof.

MATT: Okay. You're going to go all the way up to
the roof?

LAURA: Oh yeah. Some of that was lightning damage.
That was two points of lightning damage. Because

they're made of metal. I don't know if that did
anything special.

MATT: Okay. Thank you for the heads-up on that.
All righty. So ending your turn, that brings us to Vax.

LIAM: All right. To start, am I within striking
range of him if I back up a little bit?

MATT: If you back up a little bit?

LIAM: Yeah. Do I need to disengage?

MATT: You are currently engaged with him.

LIAM: Okay, so that I'm that close.

MATT: Yeah. You were inspecting it as he emerged.

LIAM: Okay. I'm going to use my bonus action to
Hunter's Mark him.

MATT: All righty.

LIAM: And then I'm going to stick him in the face
is what I'm going to do.

LAURA: Oh wait, I get 3d6 of sneak attack now?

MATT: If you haven't been marking that, yeah. You
should do that.

LAURA: An extra four.

LIAM: So that's 30 for the first. And for the
second. 30 for both.

MATT: 30 for both hits?

LIAM: Yeah, because I'm at advantage because I'm
going before them.

MATT: Correct. So both hit.

LIAM: All right. So the first one, which will get
the sneak attack fun, is ten plus psychic damage

is 16 plus sneak attack damage. (counting) 38 for
the first. Plus Hunter's Mark.

MATT: Plus another d6.

LIAM: 44 for the first and for the second is one.
That's it. Is one plus the Hunter's Mark again,

right?

LAURA: Only Hunter's Mark once on your attack.

LIAM: So it's only for one attack? Because I don't
use it all the time.

LAURA: Just kidding. It's Hunter's Mark every
time.

LIAM: Every time?

LAURA: Yeah, no, I know that.

LIAM: So five for the second.

LAURA: Yeah, sneak attack's only once but Hunter's
Mark is every time.

MATT: Yeah, whenever you hit it with a weapon. All
right. So what's that second one you said?

LIAM: Just five.

MATT: Five? All right. Got it.

LIAM: Wait! That's not true, sorry. 11. Because
it's not an offhand attack, it's my second paladin

attack.

MATT: That's correct. There you go. 11. Boom. All
righty. And you're going to stay put, or you're

going to move somewhere?

LIAM: I'm going to risk an attack while I'm not
hasted. I'm going to risk an attack and back up

about ten and go up another 15.

MATT: Okay.

TRAVIS: Yeah, they can't throw those greatswords,
right?

LAURA: Don't give him ideas. Stop it.

MARISHA: You can't be paralyzed or restrained.

TRAVIS: Helps a lot.

MATT: All righty. So you're also just about at the
ceiling with her. As you shoot up and away, it

strikes up quickly after your daggers have been
carving into its armor. Its blade comes up in a

wide arc against you. That is an 18 plus 12. 30.

LIAM: 18 plus 12? Just barely hits.

MATT: All righty.

LAURA: Wow. Do we still have our Death Ward on?

MATT: You do, yeah.

TALIESIN: Oh yeah, thank you for reminding me.

MARISHA: And our Heroes' Feast.

TALIESIN: We're pretty metal.

MATT: 32 points of slashing damage as the blade
rakes across the front of your chest and forces

you back even further. Your shoulders end up
slamming into the ceiling from the impact of both

you retracting back and the blow itself. Your
wings have to catch you for a second and you're

keeping yourself elevated at the moment. Finishing
your turn there. That brings us to Grog.

TRAVIS: Right. Standing by the blacksmithing
stuff, I say, you are interrupting Grog's arts and

crafts! And I would like to rage.

MATT: All right. Into a rage you go.

TRAVIS: And I would like to charge at that little
bastard right there.

MATT: This one here on its own?

TRAVIS: Yes, please.

MATT: Up into his face you go.

TRAVIS: Up into your face!

LAURA: Get him, Grog!

TRAVIS: Reckless, regular strike. Not terrible.
29.

MATT: That hits. Roll damage.

LAURA: 29 is not terrible. Did you know that?

TRAVIS: Hey, that's good. 28.

MATT: Damage? All right.

TRAVIS: The second one. Reckless, great weapon
master.

MATT: Okay.

TRAVIS: Just because. That's a million. That's 34
minus five is 29!

MATT: 34 minus five? Nice, that hits!

TRAVIS: Five, nine, 21, 31. 31 points of damage.

MATT: 31 points of damage. Fantastic.

TRAVIS: And that ends my turn.

MATT: All righty. Ending Grog's turn there.
Percival?

TALIESIN: I'm going to cry out to everyone: we
need their heads. Don't hit them in the face, please.

I am engaged. I know, there's nothing I can do. I
am engaged with that thing, aren't I?

MATT: Currently, yes.

LAURA: Maybe he doesn't see you because you're
above him.

MATT: You technically triggered it. It's seemingly
aware of your presence. In fact, the moment you

say that, you watch as the metallic head goes
(creak) and looks up right to you, that creepy

triangular void staring right at you.

MARISHA: Do you think you can dispel their magic?

TALIESIN: I don't know. I'm going to try and take
a run in the other direction. I know it's going to

take a swing at me. Yep, I'm running down the
wall.

MATT: This way, to the corner?

TALIESIN: Yep, as far as I can go.

MATT: That's about as far as you can get on that
wall.

TALIESIN: I'll start coming that way, too. Not a
full-- it's six spaces., so--

MATT: So at that point you'll be about there. All
righty. It does swing at you.

TRAVIS: You'll be fine.

MATT: 19.

TALIESIN: 19 just hits.

MATT: 19's your AC?

TALIESIN: AC's 18.

LIAM: Escher man is down! I love being able to see
everything.

LAURA: I know!

MATT: 34 points of slashing damage. Which almost
cleaves you off the wall.

TALIESIN: 34 points? Okay, so hold on, let me do
the math on that. (counting) Okay, yeah, I'm at

151 because I had a whole bunch of temporary
points.

MATT: As you're running along the wall, it hits
you from behind and for a second you feel the urge

to black out and you fight through it and keep
running. You can feel the warm spreading on the

back of your shoulder blades from the blow, and
you careen around that corner and stop, spinning

to survey the room. What are you doing?

TALIESIN: I pull up. I'm going to take my first
shot. I'm going to take a straight shot and I'm

going to blow a point of grit. We'll get to that,
and I'm going to try to get him to drop his sword.

First thing is I'm going to try and get him to drop
the sword. That's a 34 to hit.

MATT: That hits.

TALIESIN: Strength save against a 20.

MATT: Okay. That is a 13.

TALIESIN: Drop your sword.

MATT: Its sword clangs to the ground as you fire.
You see one of its fingers is bent back and busted

from the impact and it looks over for a second.
You watch as its broken finger (clicks) snaps back

into place and it looks back at you.

TALIESIN: Okay, so that was shot number one. Oh
boy, here we go! I've also got to do damage on

that, which is-- I'm so sorry, where are all my
dice? There we are. Oh, I didn't do that, so none

of that. Where are we going? I'm going to drop
three points of Cabal into this, as well. Oh,

there we are. Six points of psychic damage, four
points of lightning damage, and 16 points of

standard piercing damage.

MATT: Got you. And which weapon's this?

TALIESIN: Animus.

MATT: Got it. Perfect. All right, so (boom) the
finger curls back and breaks into place.

TALIESIN: Next thing I'm going to do, I'm going to
cast Hex on him. Give him disadvantage on strength

saving throws.

MATT: Well, strength ability checks.

TALIESIN: Strength ability checks. And I'm going
to take a sharpshooter shot. That's 20?

MATT: 20 just barely hits.

TALIESIN: Okay, good to know! Making that note. So
I'm going to drop three more points of Cabal into

that, so that's 20 points of piercing damage, four
points of psychic damage, 13 points of lightning

damage, and three points of necrotic damage.

LIAM: Percy's turned into Rambo.

MATT: Okay. So the second one you watch as one of
its armored shoulder plates dents inward from the

impact, and there's a small pierced hole in the
center where it seems to have blasted through its

armor.

TALIESIN: And last shot. I'm going to try and push
him ten feet back.

MATT: Okay.

TALIESIN: Natural 20.

(cheering)

TALIESIN: Should have done damage. There's no
damage on a push shot.

MATT: Yeah.

LIAM: But he got pushed.

TALIESIN: But he got pushed ten feet back. And
hey, I get a grit point back.

TRAVIS: Yeah man, when we got pushed in the
playground, that got in your head.

TALIESIN: So he's got to move ten feet before he
can pick up his sword.

MATT: Correct.

TALIESIN: And that's everything.

MATT: All righty, that ends your turn? All right,
it is now their turn. So the one that you just

blasted back, as it skids to a halt, almost slams
against the wall, it looks over at you across the

way and then looks around and surveys the room
quickly with its strange triangular vapid

lack-of-a-face. Glances up and sees Vex'ahlia on
the broom above. Goes into a full leap to push

with its feet off the wall and attempt to grab
towards you in the middle of the air.

LAURA: Oh no. It can jump that high?!

TRAVIS: Like a WWE cage match.

MATT: It's half the size of the room, practically,
in height.

TRAVIS: This could be real bad. We might get
total-partied right here.

MATT: So I'm making this a grapple check, so roll
either acrobatics or athletics.

TRAVIS: Whichever one's better. Acrobatics.

LAURA: 25?

MATT: No. 34.

(groaning)

MATT: I rolled really high. So as it leaps in the
air and grabs you, it drags you off the broom and

then basically slam-dunks you into the coals.
(crash) Straight over, prone into the coals,

landing at the side of them right there. The broom
goes clattering off to the side. It's still

chained to you from the apparatus that you placed,
and it scatters across the stonework a couple of

feet from you.

TRAVIS: I thought it was just going to slam you
into the ground!

TALIESIN: Oh, it's going to hurt!

MATT: You suffer 19 points of bludgeoning damage
from the impact.

TALIESIN: Remember you have the temporary hit
points.

MATT: And then ten points of fire damage from
being slammed into the coals. You are considered

on fire. You need to take an action to put it out
or you take 1d10 damage every turn.

TRAVIS: (singing) You whip your hair back and
forth. (screams)

MATT: However, its sword-- and I'll go ahead and
use this as a marker-- the sword is on the ground

right there. So it can't use that right now. The
other two can! So this one over there that got

shot by you and flew away, as it arcs up, it's starting
to look around to see if it can gain any real

intent to go towards you and then glances off to
the side and instead sees the smaller targets, the

softer, easier-to-get-to druid and gnome.

LIAM: What a fool.

MARISHA: Bring it, bitch!

MATT: Turns to engage both of you.

TRAVIS: This is the coal pit!

MATT: It's going to stop partway through there,
and it's going to go right up there. You watch as

underneath the head, the armor part in the chest
suddenly hinges open, and you see this bright

burning furnace in the center of its chest that
(boom) lets out this extremely white-hot burning

angry torrent of flame.

SAM: Can I cast Cutting Words, or can I use
Cutting Words?

MATT: You can, if you'd like.

SAM: I don't know if it's going to do anything,
but sure.

MATT: It can reduce damage. Because Cutting Words
can reduce damage on an attack.

SAM: Only by a little. I want him to miss, right?

MATT: Well, it's going to hit regardless. You guys
have to make saving throws.

MARISHA: It's a cone. It's just going to hit us.

MATT: It would be about there. Get all of you,
including the other guy.

LAURA: If I'm prone do I still get to roll to roll
through the coals to avoid it or some shit?

LIAM: Yeah, hide yourself under the coals.

TRAVIS: (laughter) Yeah. Like the McDonald's ball
pit.

MATT: You do not get disadvantage on saving
throws, so you can still continue to roll. I need

Scanlan and Keyleth and Vex to all make dexterity
saving throws, please.

MARISHA: There's a hypodermic needle in here!

TRAVIS: Oh god, yeah.

TALIESIN: How very Santa Monica.

MARISHA: Sorry, keep hitting the mic. Just dex
saving throws?

MARISHA and TALIESIN: (groaning)

SAM: Wait, are you pointing to me? Oh! I have this
dice. It's the first time I've ever used it. It

has poop on it; someone sent me poop dice, and I
think I just rolled a natural 20 because I rolled

the poop.

MATT: What's on the other side of the poop?

SAM: The other side is a skull.

TRAVIS: So that's a one, right?

LAURA: I think for you, you count the poop as a
20.

SAM: Is poop 20 or is poop one?

LAURA: I think poop is normally one.

MATT: What's next to the poop? What other numbers
are near it?

SAM: 19, 13, and seven.

MATT: No, that's a one. Two ones on that!

LAURA: You got a one, as well?

MARISHA: No, I rolled a three, so I'm at seven.

MATT: Yeah, so Keyleth and Scanlan, you both from
the chest furnace take 38 point of fire damage as

it burns out in front of it. You take half that.

LAURA: Okay. Which is what?

MATT: It's 19 points of fire damage to you. And
the flames burn across the other armored

individual, the giant construct, and you watch as
some of its damaged form begins to seal up from

the flames.

LAURA: Flames help it. Fire heals them. Cold
damage. Do cold damage!

TRAVIS: Fire bad!

TALIESIN: Fire good!

TRAVIS: Is good?

MARISHA: You said minus 38, right?

MATT: So that's going to end its turn. The chest
slams shut now and the flames retract back inside,

and you watch it exhaust smoke out each sides of
its armor, and the flames that you saw burning in

there are now dimmed, but beginning to flare up
again. The one that's by you, Grog, is going to go

ahead and move adjacently. Its head spins around
for a second to look up at you and then it spins

back to you, it's going to make two strikes at you
with its greatsword. It has advantage on you

because you used reckless.

TRAVIS: Yes, it does.

MATT: All right. That is 31.

TRAVIS: That hits.

MATT: That is 30.

TRAVIS: 30 points of damage.

MATT: No, that's two attacks.

TRAVIS: Oh yeah, they both hit. Of course.

MATT: Okay. So for these, 33 points of slashing
damage, reduced to half.

TRAVIS: What is that?

MATT: So that's 16? Right? Yeah.

LAURA: 31 divided by two? Yeah.

MATT: Well it's 33 divided by two. And then the
other one is another 34.

TRAVIS: Damn!

MATT: So there you go. Round down, so 16 points of
slashing damage. So that's going to end its turn

there. All right, bringing us to Scanlan. Your
turn.

LAURA: Do something amazing.

SAM: I'm on vacation, so nothing's going to be
amazing. Is the sword still on the ground?

MATT: It is.

SAM: Is it near me?

MATT: It's about 25 feet from you.

SAM: Okay, I will cast Bigby's Hand! And I will
pick up the sword and I will use it to hit not the

guy whose sword it was, but the guy closest to
me.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: They're technically both equidistant from
you.

SAM: Okay. Doesn't matter. I want the guy who hit
me.

MATT: Okay, so you can move Bigby's Hand. I'll see
how many feet it can move, because it'll pick up

the sword, I don't know if it can--

SAM: It can move 60 feet.

MATT: It can move 60 feet? Okay then! Then yes, it
definitely can. It darts over to the guy who hit

you with the flames, so go ahead and make your
attack. I'll say for the purposes of this, I'll

add an additional d12 slashing damage to its
strike.

SAM: I got an 18. Plus something; I don't know.

MATT: 18 to roll for its attack, plus your spell
attack, so that definitely hits.

SAM: Oh, plus 11. Yeah, that's huge. Is this a
sword attack, or is this Bigby's Hand's clenched

fist attack?

MATT: I'm making it a clenched fist attack, so
it's 4d8 force damage from adding an additional

d12 slashing because it's wielding a sword while
it does it, because that's cool.

SAM: That's cool. Okay, I love you, and thank you.
So I roll 4d8. Cool. Oh wait, wrong one.

MATT: 4d8 plus 1d12.

SAM: 4d8, 17 plus 12, 29.

LAURA: Well, plus a 1d12.

MATT: Plus you have to roll a d12.

SAM: Oh! Sorry, thank you. Then it's 17 plus
seven.

MATT: Okay. 24 points of damage to him. All right,
perfect. So the fist comes by and slams into it.

The sword arcs through its armor and you watch
some of the plates separate a bit, but it's still

holding itself in place. That's your action?

SAM: Oh, I get a bonus. I will inspire Keyleth. I
guess. Not that she needs any help; she's so

fricking powerful, but I will inspire Keyleth by
singing (singing) Your Minxie brings all the boys

to the yard and they're like, it's better than
yours, damn right, it's better than yours, you can

teach them, but you'd have to "chorge?" (speaking)
I don't know.

MATT: Take a d12 "chorge" die. All right. And do you
want to move at all?

SAM: I'm close to a guy who's going to hit me if I
move, right?

MATT: You're not currently in melee with a guy
yet, but you're on the outside of melee with two

guys.

SAM: Then I will move dead center on the board.

MATT: All right, so you're going to move back up the
stairs a bit, then. You'll be here. That ends your

turn, Scanlan. Keyleth, you're up.

MARISHA: Do you need help off the coals?

LAURA: I'll figure it out.

MARISHA: You're fine, right? Okay. I am going to
turn and do a Tidal Wave against this guy in front

of me, so he has to make a dexterity saving throw.
Tidal Wave.

MATT: Pull this up real fast.

TRAVIS: Away, the guy behind you or the one across the
pit?

TALIESIN: The one closest to us, or the one on the
other side?

MARISHA: Let me see. (counting) I don't think I
can hit both of them with most of my stuff.

LAURA: Can you hit the two that are by us?

MARISHA: I can, but I think it'd also hit you.
It's a straight line.

LAURA: How much damage is it?

MARISHA: 4d8 bludgeoning.

LAURA: Put me out, I wouldn't be on fire anymore.

MATT: You can do it in a way that would probably
hit both of them, but it would probably hit her,

as well.

LAURA: Do it!

MARISHA: Are we concerned about me extinguishing
these coals? We can light coals again, right?

LAURA: Unless they're magic.

TRAVIS: I have made fire.

MARISHA: Okay, cool, then with permission from
Vex, I'll put you out! And then I'll step out of

the way.

LAURA: Maybe it'll push me out of the coals.

TRAVIS: It's going to turn this room into a
sauna.

MARISHA: Yes! I'm turning into a sauna! I'm going
to hit that and go (boom).

MATT: All right, so it slams across them. All
right, dexterity saving throw for Vex and both of

them.

LIAM: This combat just got a lot sexier.

MATT: (laughs) 18 and a nine.

MARISHA: Fail. Both of them.

LAURA: Oh, do I roll a dexterity save, too?

MATT: You do.

LAURA: I think I fail it. Oh no. 16, fail.

MATT: Knocked prone, knocked prone. Okay yeah, so
you take the full damage, as well, but you are no

longer on fire.

LAURA: Yay! Did I get pushed out of the coals from
the water?

MATT: No, but the coals are no longer burning, so
it's not a huge deal, at least that edge of it

isn't.

MARISHA: So they take 19 damage, they're knocked
prone, and the water extinguishes all unprotected

flames.

MATT: So as this giant column of flame roars up,
you watch as one of the constructs disappears into

the water and gets slammed into the wall,
(sloshing) over the coals, temporarily douses you,

flames go out but you get battered around briefly
by the other guy behind you, both of your forms

crash into each other. He falls onto his back and
as the water subsides steam fills the room now,

visibility is now limited.

MARISHA: Like a fog cloud?

MATT: Yeah. Everybody in here for the most part,
unless you're directly in melee range, you're at

partial cover.

LAURA: Is it up through, all the way to the
ceiling?

MATT: Yeah, it only lasts a round or so, then
it'll dissipate. But for the next round or so

there's partial cover for anybody not directly in
melee.

MARISHA: Partial cover? So it works both ways.

MATT: Yeah. Against them and you.

TRAVIS: As if Vax needed any other reason to
hide.

MARISHA: I can feel the chat saying "Thanks
Keyleth." I can feel it!

LAURA: You know what? Seriously though, thanks
Keyleth.

MATT: Are you going to stay where you are?

MARISHA: Yeah.

MATT: All right, that ends your turn. We're at the
top, Vex, you're up.

MARISHA: No, wait! I'm going to take my bonus
action to go water elemental. And then I can still

move, right? Can I then move my water elemental
into this guy's space and as part of my elemental

form I can move into spaces that are within an
inch.

MATT: Yeah. That'll do.

MARISHA: Can I enter a hostile creature's space?

MATT: Yeah. Perfect. All righty. That ends your
turn. Vex, now it's your turn.

LAURA: Okay, so I'm going to stand up.

MATT: You get up, (groans). The flames are gone.
You're still aching from being slammed so heavily

into the coals there and you can look down, you
can see beneath the water that has turned to steam

and is dissipating on the middle of the hot metal
floors of this room. The construct is still

thrashing and about to get its way back up. What
are you doing?

LAURA: I can see him good enough though to shoot
him?

MATT: Oh yeah, he's right there.

LAURA: Am I at disadvantage because he's prone,
but he's right there?

MATT: You're at disadvantage both because prone
and you guys are in melee. You can back up if you

want to to try, I mean unfortunately because he's
on the ground and it's a ranged weapon, it's still

disadvantage. It's nothing to do with the weapon,
it's the fact that he's on the ground, prone.

TALIESIN: Oh it's on the ground, okay.

LAURA: Okay well I'm going to back up, because he
can't take a strike at me, right?

MATT: He can take a swing at you, but it'll be his
fists.

LAURA: I'm going to back towards the stairs where
Scanlan is.

MATT: So you're back up towards the stairway
there. It does get one swing at you, no he already

got-- no, because your turn is before his, so he
does have his reaction. So he swings out with a

fist at you, that is a 21.

SAM: I will Cutting Words that.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: Thanks, Scanlan!

MATT: Well, what are your Cutting Words to him?

SAM: Oh. I'm going to quote from some old TV show
and say: you are a monstrous mechanised misguided

moron! That's it.

MATT: Very nice. Go ahead and roll a d12.

TRAVIS: I don't know that TV show.

TALIESIN: I think it's Lost in Space.

SAM: Correct, Taliesin Jaffe! Oh shit, I only
rolled a three.

LAURA: Does that Cutting Words him down to 19 or
18?

MATT: Yeah, that brings him down to an 18.

LAURA: Then he doesn't hit me.

MATT: As the fist swings wide, the words seem to
strangely cut through to what element of an ego

this charisma-one creature has and slams into the
metal, causing this large, heavy knuckle punch to

the ground as it resounds with this heavy (clang)
that shakes the ground. Vex, you manage to move by

without issue.

LAURA: Great! I think I'm going to then try to
attack him.

MATT: Go for it. Two attacks with disadvantage.

LAURA: Okay. Ugh, natural 20 was one of them. 30
is the first attack.

TRAVIS: It's 20 and an 18, that's pretty good.

MATT: Actually, it's an interesting point, the
prone. An attack roll against the creature has

advantage if the attacker is within five feet of
the creature.

LAURA: Oh, so if I hadn't moved away I would have
been okay?

MATT: Possibly. It's still ranged; you'd be at
disadvantage for ranged in melee, so would have

been a regular attack.

LAURA: Yeah, so it's not cancelled out, if I
hadn't moved it would have been, never mind. We'll

just fucking say it's fine, because then I'm going
to wish I had that crit I just got. So 30 was the

attack roll. Okay. (groans) Okay, that is 13, 14,
15. 15 plus one lightning damage. Plus six sneak--

no sneak attack, just kidding.

TRAVIS: Did you Hunter's Mark him?

LAURA: There's the Hunter's Mark. Five Hunter's
Mark. That's the first attack, and the second

attack at disadvantage is 19?

MATT: 19 just misses. Hits the armor, (crash)
shatters across it.

LAURA: Fuck.

MATT: Is that your turn?

LAURA: Yeah.

MATT: All right. Vax.

LIAM: All right, I want to slam down right--

LAURA: Sorry, can I use my bonus to hide behind
one of those pillars?

MATT: Sure, go ahead and roll a stealth check.

LAURA: 16.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: It's foggy in this room!

TRAVIS: Vax!

LIAM: Yes, all right, slam down right by that
one's head, straight down to the ground,

take a split-second to look up at the watery
druid, shake my fucking head, stab, stab right

into its face. Yeah. Okay, so the first one is a 33.

MATT: 33 hits.

LIAM: Yeah, and the second one is 28.

MATT: 28 hits.

LIAM: All right. So he's prone; he's at
disadvantage. I'm going to dump Smite into both of

these. Yeah! (counting) 36 plus the Smite, which is
32, 39 for the first, and then for the second hit

is two, six, eight, plus the Smite, eight, ten,
12.

MATT: Total damage? All right, so as you slam down
the first strike, you jam it right into the chest,

and as you pull back the blade you watch as one of
the chest armor pieces flips open and the flames,

the furnace of its chest that are starting to burn
in again begin to fill with the water from the

water elemental, and more steam emerges from it.
As it's starting to feel the furnace burn out, you

reach in with your dagger and find a cool spot and
jam it right in the middle where you see one of

the embers is the brightest and as your hand goes
in and strikes it, the ember goes dark and

immediately the creature falls limp there.

LIAM: Then, so with the way Hunter's Mark works is
I can move it to another as a bonus action? Can I

get it over to the one by Grog?

MATT: What's the range on it?

LIAM: Oh jeez. 90 feet. Okay, so I should have a
little bit of movement left, so I'm going to shoot

back up, high-five my girlfriend on the way, and
go as high as I can in the room.

MARISHA: It goes (splat).

MATT: Yeah, it's like punching a fire hydrant. All
right, so you're going to head over this way.

LIAM: I'm only 60 feet because I'm not hasted
wings.

MATT: Right, but this also is a small area, so
between here, it's almost 30 feet there and then

30 feet up, so you'd probably be closer to here.

LIAM: Okay. Awesome.

MATT: Yeah, there you go. That ends your turn.
Grog, you're up.

TRAVIS: All right, this guy can obviously play
heavy. Reckless, great weapon master, can I make

the first attack, I'm going to try for the first
time--

MATT: And remember this round, don't forget your
retaliation ability.

TRAVIS: Yeah, right.

MATT: You forget it a lot.

TRAVIS: I do, I know. I'm sorry, I get confused!
I'm going to try a trip attack with my new

maneuvers. It's a d8, right, that's added--

MATT: To the damage, but you still have to roll to
hit first.

TRAVIS: Okay. Reckless, great weapon master! 30
minus five is 25.

MATT: 25 hits, yeah.

TRAVIS: So 11, 27, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41.

LAURA: 41!

MATT: 41 points of damage to it!

TRAVIS: And he's tripped. Oh, he has to make a
strength saving throw.

MATT: Correct. He actually got a 15, and your DC
for your abilities-- do you have that figured out?

You should have that figured out. It's eight plus
your strength modifier plus your proficiency

bonus. You're way over.

TRAVIS: Oh! Okay, cool.

MATT: So six plus eight. It's 14 plus your
strength bonus, which is I believe eight, yeah.

TRAVIS: 26.

MATT: No, not 26, it's 14 plus eight.

TRAVIS: 76.

MATT: Yeah. Sure. So with that, first you knock it
prone onto the ground, tripping out from under

itself as you sweep across its legs, you watch as
one of the pauldrons that's built into its leg

splinters off, and you can see the inner
mechanisms of the construct's leg. What do you

want to do for your second attack?

TRAVIS: I want to hit it again! Reckless, great
weapon master. Thank god for that. Seven. Shit,

that might not be so good. 20.

MATT: 20 just barely hits.

TRAVIS: Oh, it hits. Okay. One, seven, 17! Oh, 17
plus ten, so 27.

MATT: You're in melee, too, so the reduce his
ability doesn't really affect you since you're

right up against him. How much was that damage
total?

TRAVIS: 27.

MATT: 27 points. Okay. As you swipe it from under
the ground and it falls onto its back, it slams,

hits the ground with a hard metallic (clang).
Using that momentum you swing back, (wham) and

slam down on top of its chest, which caves in
briefly, you can see bits of the flame of the

interior furnace flickering around the edges where
the metal's now crinkled inward, exposing the

burning flame. Is that your turn?

TRAVIS: Can I spend an action surge to do one more
strike into his Gallagher-afflicted chest.

Reckless, great weapon master! That's a lot. 16,
20, 34, 29.

MATT: 29 hits. Roll damage. You have two more
attacks with your action surge.

TRAVIS: Oh shit!

LAURA: It's just another attack.

TALIESIN: Welcome to my world, man.

TRAVIS: 21, 31.

MATT: 31 hits.

TRAVIS: Nice. No, 29 was the hit, and 31 was the
damage.

MATT: 31 was the damage?! Okay, so as you pull
your weapon up from that first impact, seeing the

damage it's done, you grin and you feel the veins
bulge once more in your neck and you bring it up a

third time for this one, slamming it down, the
chest caves in entirely and you watch it fall limp

as its arms detach and fall to the side. It's
done. You still have one more attack, and you

haven't moved.

TRAVIS: Can I turn (cracking) to my right in my
rage and start running across the room to Old

Stupid Butt on the wall? 50 feet.

LAURA: Oh, you got to it!

TRAVIS: Last one! Reckless, great weapon master!

MATT: (laughter) Okay!

TRAVIS: That's a million. 35, 30?

MATT: Yeah, that hits.

TRAVIS: Okay. Five, 21, 31.

LAURA: It's so good when they're within range of
Grog.

MATT: Yeah. All righty. That ends your turn, Grog.
That brings us to Percival.

TALIESIN: I'm going to spend a point of dead-eye
to that last one that's on the ground, and I think

that cancels out the disadvantage. Yeah, let's just
shoot him. Yeah, that's a 27.

MATT: 27 hits.

TALIESIN: That's ten points of damage, two points
of necrotic, two points of psychic. And do the

same. That's 32.

MATT: That hits.

(groaning)

TALIESIN: What a senseless waste of human life.

LAURA and LIAM: The tarot cards!

TALIESIN: Tarot cards are fine!

MARISHA: They're actually fine. They were on the
box.

MATT: Just let me know what magical items you need
me to re-print out for you.

TALIESIN: All of them!

MARISHA: And your new dice box.

LAURA: Can we get some paper towels?

LIAM and TALIESIN: Ten points of coffee damage.

LAURA: It may have landed on some wires.

TALIESIN: That's nine points of normal damage, two
points of psychic damage, six points of necrotic.

MATT: Okay.

LAURA: Somebody's running now. Soon as we said
wires.

TALIESIN: And for my third shot. That's 30
points.

MATT: That hits, yeah.

TALIESIN: That's 17 points of normal damage, four
points of necrotic, one point of psychic.

MATT: Okay. So after Grog rushed up and slammed in
this one's chest, he pulls back and actually pulls

the armored chest plate that retains the furnace
in the inside off. It's still wedged on the axe.

And as it pulls open you see the flame begin to
spark and billow out of the chest. How do you want to

do this?

(shouting)

TRAVIS: You are frenzied raging right now.

TALIESIN: I want to pour a cup of coffee--

(laughter)

MARISHA: Morning traffic Percy's like (groaning).

TALIESIN: I'm going to sit. I've already got him,
second time I'm going to find very carefully every

little crack, and I'm going to get him in there.
I'm going to listen to them bang around on the

interior. I'm going to rattle them around.

MATT: You hear the ricochet on the inside
(clanging), as it does, the flicker burns really

bright, you can feel it almost burns into your
beard but you pull away real fast, almost like

looking out of the trap in Ghostbusters. So you
turn away. The flames (crackle) burn upward and

then immediately go dark afterward, it falls and
collapses to the ground there, unmoving.

TRAVIS: I looked in the trap, Ray.

MARISHA: Ugh, no!

TALIESIN: It's going to be fine.

LAURA: The worst. It's seriously under the box
though, on the wires.

LIAM: But coffee and Wyrmwood are the two best
things, so you're mixing the two best things.

(yelling)

LAURA: It's everywhere!

TALIESIN: Holy cow. I have a coffee problem.

MATT: The coffee-pocalypse has come to Critical
Role this night.

TRAVIS: That's an eight-ounce cup. It's a normal
cup of coffee.

TALIESIN: You would think, and I've been drinking
it all night.

LAURA: How is there so much coffee?!

TALIESIN: I don't know!

TRAVIS: You can caffeinate half of Burbank right
there.

TALIESIN: Ignore me.

MATT: It's hard to.

So. As you all take a moment to look around, you
can see that these three warriors now lie broken

and destroyed on the ground. Whether it be
drowned, torn apart internally, or bludgeoned in

the center of their chest cavity, they are no
longer moving. You still, now in the quiet, hear

the rhythmic (steady banging) that's been
perpetually feeding into the distant background of

this entire structure deep beneath the volcano.
What do you want to do?

TRAVIS: Can I look at the golem, the construct
that's down by me? Is his face, the triangle face,

is it detachable? Can I remove it from the rest of
his person?

TALIESIN: We can always put it underneath the
smelter and pour in.

MATT: Make an investigation check.

TRAVIS: Hold onto your butts. That's a one.

MATT: There's no button for it. There's the old
fashioned way.

LIAM: I'm going to land down next to the other one
and start looking in the same fashion. Across the

room.

MATT: Make an investigation check.

LAURA: I'm going to cast Cure Wounds on myself.

MATT: All right, go for it.

TRAVIS: And I will do it the old fashioned way.

MATT: So make a strength check, please.

LIAM: 27.

MATT: Like most of its armored pieces, the arms
detach, but the head is a solid jointed portion to

the torso.

TRAVIS: 22.

MATT: 22. And as you're inspecting this, you hear
this horrible (clanging) sound in the distance as

you see Grog with his foot up on the center of the
armored clavicle piece, yanks the head off of it,

tearing, causing the metal to bend back and spring
for a moment in the air.

TRAVIS: Look, it's just like the one above the
coals!

LIAM: Oh, that's how you do it.

LAURA: Good job, Grog.

TALIESIN: We've got to do all three heads.

TRAVIS: That's an interesting phrase.

LAURA: See if you can smelt some platinum into
that thing, Grog. Should it be platinum? Should

probably be platinum, yeah?

TALIESIN: We have the platinum. Let's see what
happens. Let's smelt the platinum into the heads.

LAURA: You know how to do it, because you're a
blacksmith now.

TRAVIS: We're not supposed to like, kissy-face the
heads to make some sort of a 3D shape?

LAURA: No, it's already got a pyramid in it.

TRAVIS: Good deal.

TALIESIN: I think we're going to put all three
into the one.

TRAVIS: Sounds like a plan. Can I go over and
archaically remove the other two noggins?

MATT: Sure.

SAM: May I assist by holding the bodies with
Bigby's Hand while you pull the heads?

MATT: Yes, actually. Make a strength check with
advantage, Grog.

TRAVIS: 23.

MATT: Yeah, so with Bigby's Hand wrapping around
the body, clutching it like an action figure, you

very easily (crack) pop the head off, and you now
have two disembodied heads.

TRAVIS: One more. Do you want to help me with this
one, too? Yeah! What's wrong with your voice? 18.

MATT: 18. (groaning) It takes a little while, and
it pulls off, but it's mildly deformed from being

pulled off. It seems like the hole in the face is
intact. It took so hard a try.

TRAVIS: We got the ashtrays.

TALIESIN: That'll do. Let's try this.

TRAVIS: All right. We head over to the smelting
apparati.

MATT: Okay. So you walk on over, and it's a small
furnace built in there with extremely hot coals,

and it seems to be an influx of perpetual heat,
but there's a large bellows next to it that you can

use to try and increase the heat there for a
temporary, short time, and you once again,

strangely, you look over to it and you know exactly
how this works, like you've always worked with it

before. So the flames that were a burning
orange-red, extremely hot, begin to flare into

bright yellow and white in places. And the heat
emanating from it is enough that it causes a lot

of you to get uncomfortable in the presence and you
have to take a step back, Grog enduring it.

MARISHA: I'm still a fire hydrant. Keyleth is on
fire marshal duty. I do some misting, like at Six

Flags to cool off Vex.

TRAVIS: You can't just run through you, like Universal
City Walk or something?

MARISHA: Yeah. Mainly just to make Vex sexy.
That's really all I'm going for. I turned into an

elemental. I've got to do something with it.

MATT: Make a check with your blacksmithing tools,
which is your proficiency modifier, and we'll say

for this, because it is more of a dextrous use of
this skill, add your dexterity modifier.

TRAVIS: Okay. 24.

MATT: 24. So in setting up preparation, you take
each one of the heads, and to fill each one of

their-- I want to say concave, but it's an
interior pyramid space. Convex is outward. It will

be about 100 platinum pieces or so to fill each
face void. So you take the platinum, you melt it

down into the smelter, get it to where it's in the
gripped, tong-held metallic reservoir, until it

eventually melts down. You then pour it into each
of the heads, so 300 platinum utilized to do this.

It fills to the very edge. Some of it spills over,
but you can easily snip that off. As you wait for

it to cool, which you can probably help with,
actually, as there is no basin for quenching the

metal at the moment, so the steam (whoosh) rises
up all around, and you turn the heads over, and

each one (sliding sound) leaves these heavy
metallic pyramid pieces that are smooth and

perfect on three of the sides, and one of them
appears to be almost like a broken crystal on the

inside. It's a shattered, messed-up section.

LAURA: Puzzle piece! Got to fit them together!

TALIESIN: Okay, so if we fit these together--

MATT: They seem to fit together very well; you
figured it out very quickly, they fit and hold

together.

LAURA: With the jaggedy ends, or with the smooth
ends?

MATT: The jaggedy ends all fit together.

TALIESIN: Does this now make another concave
piece?

MATT: All together, it makes a pyramid that comes
to a central point.

LAURA: (shouting) Let's put it in the big thing!

TALIESIN: So I've still got some Spider Climb, so
I'm going to grab one and lift up. All the

fliers?

LAURA: Yep. Let's go.

MATT: Okay. So the three of you make it up, fit it
together, push it in. It fits in perfectly. Slips

in. You all back up... nothing.

LAURA: We push it in harder.

MATT: All right, make a strength check.

LAURA: This is definitely going to be really
good.

LIAM: I push on my sister's shoulder blades.

LAURA: 15.

LAURA and LIAM: (groaning)

MATT: Right, you guys (groans) get behind and
shove, push. Nothing.

TRAVIS: Can I try?

LAURA: Yeah. Grog, you try.

TRAVIS: I run across the coal pits and Superman
punch the pyramid.

LIAM: I barrel-roll out of the way.

TRAVIS: I rage before I do this.

LAURA: Oh Jesus. There's a dent in it now.

MATT: You get advantage on this, then.

TRAVIS: That's what I was hoping for. 21.

MATT: (impact noise) The impact on this causes the
whole room to shake almost, from the blast. You

hear the echo right up the stairs in the hallway
that you emerged from, you can hear continuing as

it slowly dissipates in the distance. You land,
and you can see there's actually a knuckle mark in

the platinum from the impact. No effect.

LAURA: Hey, I've got an idea. What if we take this
thing off of the cross beams, right? And stick it

in the coals, or something. Because why are the
coals here, right underneath it?

MARISHA: I drop water elemental form. You think it
needs to be hot first?

LAURA: I don't know.

MARISHA: I look up, I line up the apparatus and
look across the room, does it feel like there's

any other Indiana Jones--

MATT: The stairway is in the way. Because the
stairway doesn't come all the way to the top of

the ceiling, and then back here it blocks this
passage between the two of them, but as you go and

look, all it is is the reddish, rust colored
cross-beams that are bolted against the wall, and

in the center there's the round golden crest with
the triangle shape which is now filled with the

platinum key that you've made.

TALIESIN: Are the coals hot or are the coals
cold?

MATT: The coals are currently now cold.

TRAVIS: Should we try turning it?

LAURA: Oh yeah, good idea! But we should reignite
these coals, because I think it's bad that they've

burned down right now.

MARISHA: I think so, too. Just to test, yeah, I'm
going to do Burning Hands. How quickly do they

catch?

MATT: Pretty quickly. And you get the sense that
they were slowly catching, anyway; there's

something about them, the heat that the general
room perpetually emanates maintains the fires

within. But your flame with the burning hands very
quickly elevates and quickens that process, and

you watch as the coals now glow to a bright
orange-red hue, and you can feel the heat

emanating from them.

LAURA: Can we turn the circle? Does it move?

MATT: So you go up to the edge and you grab the
edge of the golden crest and tug! And it's not

moving.

LAURA: Gosh darn it! What are we supposed to do?

MARISHA: Are there any inlays?

MATT: Make an investigation check.

MARISHA: Okay. It's not my strong point. Goddamn
it, that's like the fourth three I've rolled

today.

SAM: Hey, you're inspired.

MATT: (laughter) You are inspired. Up to you.

MARISHA: Better. 12.

MATT: 12. It's smooth gold, there's no signs or
runes or anything on the side.

TALIESIN: I want to see if there's anything in the
holes that were left by the soldiers who left.

MATT: What was that?

TALIESIN: The three suits of armor came out of the
wall, so there's now a wall that we haven't seen

behind them.

LAURA: Maybe it's supposed to be gold.

MARISHA: Platinum is for the trammels.

MATT: Okay. So you go ahead and look inside which
one?

TALIESIN: I'm going to do all three, but I'll
start on the one on the left.

MATT: Okay, roll an investigation check.

TALIESIN: That's investigation check. What did you
do? Six.

MARISHA: Is that also a three?

TALIESIN: Yeah, it's also a three.

MATT: You look around inside and the shape is a
perfect indentation of the physical form of the

three metal warriors. You don't see any signs of
anything beyond enough of a cavity to fit them

snugly when they're dormant.

LIAM: Hey Scanlan? You want to use your dragon
fisting friend to put that pyramid in the coals

and heat it up and then shove it back in?

SAM: Wait, what?

LIAM: Do you want to use Bigby's Hand to take that
pyramid, shove it in the coals, heat it up, and

see if that makes a difference, shove it back in
hot?

SAM: So you want me to heat the platinum and then
shove into the guy's face?

MATT: Bigby's Hand, by the way, at this time has
faded. It only lasts for a minute with

concentration. The spell has faded.

LIAM: Well, maybe the pyramid heated up could make
a difference.

TRAVIS: All right, I walk up into the coals, take
the platinum pyramid out, and I'll drop it down

into the coals.

MATT: Okay, it's about 15 feet up off the ground.

TRAVIS: Shit. Can I jump, Boots of Feral Leaping?

MATT: You can. I'd say you leap up and grab the
edges of the seal with your giant strength, and

wedge your fingers in the side and pull it out and
land on the coals. You do take four points of fire

damage as the coals begin to burn into your feet
and the proximity of the heat. But you

back up out of the coal based center now holding
the key.

TRAVIS: I drop it in the coals.

MATT: Okay, the three pieces come apart as soon as
you pull it from the section, so you have the

three different pieces right there in your arms.

TALIESIN: So when three pieces go together the
part that goes towards the wall--

MATT: It's another point. It's like a four-sided
pyramid.

TALIESIN: All right, it is a pyramid, so the whole
pyramid goes in the wall.

MATT: Yeah, it's a flat seal on the outside.

LAURA: I think this needs to be gold, dear.

TALIESIN: Why would it be gold?

LAURA: Well, the outside is gold.

TALIESIN: That's true.

MARISHA: Maybe the platinum is only for the
trammels, not the key.

LAURA: We can try it. We have gold.

LIAM: Finish my stupid idea, and then we'll move
onto the next stupid one.

LAURA: Good call.

TRAVIS: Has the platinum pyramid started to heat up
yet?

MATT: You're holding it in your arms.

TRAVIS: I drop it in the coals.

MATT: Okay. You drop it in the coals. You wait
about five minutes or so, and you can see a faint

bit of heated glow slowly heating up, but these 
coals are not smelter ready.

TRAVIS: You know what, I feel like, I feel like,
this is stupid. I pick them up. (pained gasps)

Tell me where they go

MATT: Okay, make an intelligence check, Grog, to
assemble the three puzzle pieces of the key.

TRAVIS: Negative two. Nine.

MATT: (laughs) He's having a hard time putting
those pieces together, guys!

LIAM: I fly over, I'm Deathwalker's Warded to fire
and I'm going to start helping.

MATT: All right. You each take five points of fire
damage just helping touch and assemble this key.

Once you get it put together you hold it in the grasp
of your hands. You leap using the Boots of Feral

Leaping, jam it back inside. Land off to the side.
Nothing.

TRAVIS: Asshole! Son of a bitch!

LAURA: We got to fucking try it in gold! Try it in
gold. Maybe try it in gold.

TALIESIN: I have one other thought.

SAM: What?

LAURA: What is it?

TALIESIN: What's the red armor made out of?

LAURA: (gasps) What are the armors made out of?

MATT: It's a dark, reddish-black metal.

LAURA: Can we melt the golems into their heads?

TRAVIS: What?

LAURA: Melt each one. Maybe it's got to be the
metal they're made out of.

TRAVIS: The triangles are like this big and the
armor is like massive.

LAURA: Yeah, so take some of the metal and melt it
down into the head.

MARISHA: What is the metal? Can we do a check to
see what kind of metal it is, what it's made out of?

MATT: Either of these guys can attempt to do
that.

TALIESIN: I can take a look. What would that be?

MATT: This would be an intelligence check plus
your tinkering benefit, intelligence check plus

your blacksmithing proficiency modifier.

TALIESIN: So that's intelligence plus my normal
tinker check?

MATT: Yeah.

TALIESIN: So that's not bad. Let's see.

TRAVIS: 19.

TALIESIN: Oh wow! That's 32.

MATT: Okay. So both of you say out loud at the
same time, "Oh, this is volcanic glass metal."

TALIESIN and TRAVIS: Volcanic glass metal. Aha!

LAURA: So maybe can we melt it?

TALIESIN: Only in a glass volcano. No, I think it
will melt.

TRAVIS: Do I know if volcanic--

MATT: Yeah, it's a--
TRAVIS: It's--

MATT: (laughs) It's a type of metal--
TRAVIS: It's a type of metal--

MATT: You're following me on this?

TRAVIS: Yeah, I'm following you on it.

MATT: Okay, it's an oxidized red iron base that in
the construct and the folding of the metal, to

build the actual armored structure of these
creatures, had bits of volcanic glass folded into

the actual metal as it was created.

LAURA: I feel like that makes it special.

TRAVIS: (laughs) Bring on the Night King.

TALIESIN: We can give it a shot, can't we?

TRAVIS: Melt them down into each of the three.

LIAM: Why don't you make their dreams come true
and rip their groins off?

LAURA: Melt their body into their face and make
triangles out of the metal.

MATT: Okay, so because you rolled a very high check,
I'll let you know, that generally heating up a

metal to the point in which it's liquid and then
pouring it into the same metal is going to mess up

the mold.

TALIESIN: That's a terrible idea. Let's try gold.
I would have felt very foolish.

LAURA: You guys are so smart about this stuff,
then we should do gold.

TRAVIS: It comes, it comes in waves. It's like a
new awakening.

TALIESIN: We'll try the gold.

MATT: Okay, so about a hundred gold pieces per
head. So 300 gold pieces removed.

LAURA: Wait, how come it was 300? Oh, it's not
the same worth, it's the coin.

MATT: Well, it's a hundred gold pieces per face. So
it's 300 gold pieces total. So 300 gold taken off,

total. You smelt it down, same process, and then
place within each of the three molds, wait for it

to cool and then you remove the three key pieces
of the solid gold. They all fit together just as

the platinum pieces did.

TRAVIS: Can somebody go pull that thing out, and
then I will put this one in?

TALIESIN: I'm pulling it out.

MATT: Okay, so you go ahead and you pull out the
chunks of heated, now cooling platinum and drop

them into the coals for a moment. You pull them
off the coals, carefully.

TRAVIS: Can I run up and MJ the new gold pyramid
into the--?

MATT: Sure, make an intelligence check.

TRAVIS: An intelligence check? Oh, because I got
to put them together. Two!

MATT: Grog is having a hard time with that. Okay.

TRAVIS: I'm making an origami swan.

MATT: (laughs) All right, you guys eventually help him
put it together a second time.

LIAM: That is a really good macaroni art you've
made. It's so good. That's a boat, right?

LAURA: Let's put it in the key.

MATT: All right. So as they have it assembled, you
rush up, leap jam it in up there and it slides

into place. You hear a heavy slamming sound
and what sounds like the scraping of heavy chain

mail. (metallic scraping)

TRAVIS: I grab the platinum pyramid and I put it
in the Bag of Holding.

LAURA: No! I already said that I had them. No. No,
he doesn't do that.

MATT: The wall immediately shudders and you see a
layer of dust and soot, (falling sand) off of it.

as it falls to rest onto the ground and you see
the wall slowly rise up. (grinding gears)

MARISHA: Wait. I want to prep something. Hide!

MATT: Okay, so who's hiding?

LIAM: I am.

MATT: All right, stealth check.

LAURA: Yeah, and I'm hiding behind the pillar that
I'm next to.

MATT: All right, so you hide behind there.

TRAVIS: Scanlan, face death with me!

SAM: This is bullshit. I'm going to stand there,
hands on hips.

MARISHA: I'll hug the wall closest to the door.

MATT: Okay. All right.

TRAVIS: It's just going to reveal another
stairway, come on.

TALIESIN: It's going to be another door.

TRAVIS: Did you guys see National Treasure?

TALIESIN: No.

TRAVIS: What?

TALIESIN: No, I never saw National Treasure.

LAURA: Oh my god, it's so good.

TALIESIN: Okay, well we'll make an evening of it.

MARISHA: It's Nick Cage at his most mediocre.

LAURA: St. Nicholas.

MATT: As the door eventually comes to a stop maybe
a foot before it reaches the ceiling, black smoke

pours in from the other chamber. You watch as it
immediately fills the ceiling and then begins to

dissipate up the stairway and the hallway above
you where you guys originally descended from. You

see flashes of sparks and embers through these
clouds of black smoke and soot within the chamber.

It's obscuring most of your view within the
inside. And that heavy pounding, that (pounding)

is much louder now. You can sense that it is
actually the source of that rhythmic beat, that

metal-on-metal clang you have been feeling since
you first came into this series of chambers.

You can see small streams of glowing orange molten
rock within the chamber, which is slightly down

and before you. Looks like two small ten-foot-wide
rivers of molten rock, metal-- you can't quite

tell from here, but it's glowing orange and red,
and they both convene and go dark in the center

where it looks like they are being covered or
obscured by something that you can't quite make

out at this distance.

LAURA: A giant anvil?

MATT: Make a perception check, anybody who wants
to glance in. Right now, the only people who can

look in would not be Percival and Vax because they
are in the way back, and Keyleth is hiding, if you

want to glance in the side you can.

MARISHA: I can do a peek?

MATT: Sure.

LAURA: 17.

TRAVIS: 16.

MARISHA: 24.

LAURA: That sound is creepy as fuck.

TALIESIN: I know, it's a lot of sound.

MATT: What you can make out for the most part is
this central platform is raised. It looks like there's

a staircase that leads up to a middle platform
that is in the center of this larger chamber, and

it looks to be a couple of large, heavy platforms
or pillars that have roaring flames at the edges

of them. You can see beneath it, the two pools of
lava that disappear beneath it, and you see a hint

of a spiral staircase on each side that curls
around the back end of where those two rivers of

molten rock meet. Behind that, you see the
flashes, (sparking) like these rhythmic engines of

sparks that are pouring out of the black smoke
that is perpetually filling the upper part of this

chamber. However, since now it has a place to
escape, the room is slowly revealing the interior.

You can see on top of this platform in the center
a large dark metal object, roughly four or five

feet from front to back and about three feet wide
of dark, jet black metal, with small veins of

glowing red and orange that curl around it that
occasionally flare with each impact of whatever

this rhythmic metal clanging is behind it.

As the smoke begins to dissipate even further,
more visibility reveals the shape of this object

to definitely be that of an anvil. You can see a number of
chains that are linked to it on each side that

dangle off the edge. You cannot quite see what's
at the end of these chains; they're falling off

the side of this platform and out of view. You'd
have to get closer to see what they are. However,

the shape that you now see, right behind this
platform, looming at about 20 feet tall from your

estimation at this distance, Keyleth, as you are
the one who sees this before anybody else does. You

see a stocky humanoid form that is looming over
the anvil, both of its fists resting on each side

of the platform. You can see its trunk-like arms
and legs are dark gray stone, and the head carries

no face; it is a smooth absence of face. You can
see red cables that dangle from the top and the

back of the head that are then pulled together in
the back like a ponytail, and around the center of

its torso and its lower body, these extremely
thick layers of leather wrap that make a kilt

that dangles past the knees of this giant stone
structure that stands there looming over. In one

of its hands you see a comparably small but
impressive-looking hammer of gold and black that

is currently chained to the platform. It's the one
that isn't currently dangling off the side. It's

in its hand and it's resting there. And you can
see the heat emanating from both the pools of

molten rocks on the side of it and the flames
behind. Most of the imagery is perpetually

shifting and being altered by the sheer volume of
heat that this chamber holds. This is apparently

the Core Anvil, and whatever decor around it looks
very intimidating. What do you want to do?

MARISHA: The humanoid figure doesn't seem to have
noticed us? He's not moving?

MATT: It's not moving. It's standing there right
at the platform.

LAURA: Over the anvil?

TRAVIS: Is that sound still happening?

MATT: Yep.

LAURA: And the figure is 20 feet fall, you said?

MATT: Yeah. You don't see the ceiling in here,
because it's all filled with black smoke.

TRAVIS: Can we see the source of the sound? Can we
see what's causing that yet?

MATT: You can't right now. It's behind that
entity, and you see behind where the platform is,

the darkened back portion of the chamber, these
two flashes of spark and flame. As they do, you see

bursts of smoke and flame billow up and continue
to fill and feed the ceiling.

MARISHA: I convey what I see. I think you might
have a guardian you have to fight over that

hammer, Grog.

LAURA: Oh no, again?

LIAM: I creep up past my sister and place a hand
on his knee, which is in my fucking face.

MARISHA: If we can take 60 seconds, I back up into
a corner and start casting Conjure Elemental and

conjure another water elemental to be on our side,
from the staff.

LAURA: Maybe he's a friendly giant really
creepy-looking entity.

MARISHA: Maybe he's the guy who tried to use the
anvil before.

LAURA: Maybe he's the Allfather. Is that what he's
called?

MATT: Allhammer.

TRAVIS: Well, look. Before we step into that
arena, we control this space. How quick and quiet

can you be, to see if he responds to your
movement?

LIAM: I can get in there.

LAURA: In and out, super fast.

LIAM: Sure. You want me to get a look?

TRAVIS: Yeah. See if he reacts to you.

LAURA: Dart up to him and go (taunting) and then
dart back.

MARISHA: Hang on. We might want to be careful
about getting too high. There's a lot of smoke in

there; we don't want to suffocate.

SAM: That's the only time Marisha has ever said
those words.

(laughter)

MARISHA: We're live on the fucking internet, Sam
Riegel!

SAM: Hope your mom's watching.

LIAM: Thanks for watching everybody, that's the
end of tonight's show. Oh my gosh.

MATT: What are you guys doing?

LIAM: Can you add any of your secret sauce to my
sneaking?

MATT: You have to stay within a certain radius of
her to get the effect.

LIAM: Never mind, I'll be fine.

TRAVIS: Yeah, do it. This is what you do.

LAURA: Just fly in really fast. Be creepy and
quick.

LIAM: Do I need to do an additional stealth?
Creepy is automatic. It's a given.

MATT: Because this is heading into the chamber as
opposed to just staying behind the platform, yes.

You have to roll again.

LIAM: Okay. Natural 20.

TALIESIN: We don't even notice him leave.

MATT: So you head into the chamber. Okay. As you
make your way inside, you look left and right and

you can see the dark stonework begins to mingle
with the metal and begins to go into the rough

edges of the volcanic rock that it's built into.
You see two large pillars to each side of you that

have these red rocks embedded in the side that
give this faint red glow that gives a hint of

light to the chamber. There's the heat from the
pools. The whole chamber in here is very

uncomfortable for you. Thankfully, your armor
giving you heat resistance does help a bit. You

can see the anvil on top of the staircase on the
raised platform and that large hulking entity

that's looming over it at the moment.

LIAM: If he's here and I'm over here, can I fly up
just there so I can see the front of him a bit? The

angle of his face, if there is one, anything to see?
Or is he facing out towards us?

MATT: He's facing out towards you.

LIAM: Never mind then. Shoot.

LAURA: You've got fuzz on your face. Can I get it?
No, you got it. It was right on his lip, so every

time he talked--

LIAM: Nice.

MATT: So what are you doing?

TALIESIN: Be bold.

LIAM: Float in space and do that.

MATT: Okay. You fly up? That is not stealthy.

LIAM: No, from where I am. I'm not making noise,
I'm not flying closer to him. I'm just doing this.

Whatever you want to do.

MARISHA: "I stealthily get his attention by waving
my hand in his face."

MATT: There's a difference between stalking
off in the corner and flying up into the center to

get a look and then seeing if he sees you. So what
are you doing? You have to distinguish that.

LIAM: Okay. I'm going to fly back to the gang.
Could you pick this fuzz off my face? I couldn't

get it off the whole time, it just keeps
re-affixing. I don't know. I flew in and out.

TALIESIN: We're going to have to get his attention
somehow.

LAURA: It's got to be you, because you're so
fast. If you get his attention you can dart out

really fast.

LIAM: So what do we think we're doing here? Are we
talking to this thing?

LAURA: Should we try talking to him?

TRAVIS: We might.

LAURA: Maybe it's better.

TALIESIN: It's a crazy plan, but it just might
work.

LAURA: You can speak Celestial, too, right? You
don't just read it.

TALIESIN: Geflten. Yes, I speak Celestial.

(laughs)

TRAVIS: Oh man, Swedish Chef over here.

MATT: So we now have, as Exandria canon, that
Celestial sounds like Swedish.

TALIESIN: You can bury that as deep as you want.

MATT: Thank you for that, Taliesin.

LAURA: I thought Celestial sounded more like
singing.

TALIESIN: Well, you know, it's like a whole thing.

LIAM: Can I get another quick re-rundown of the
room? So he was up at the top of the stairs,

facing out, not moving and was that
wall behind him, or does it go further past him at all?

MATT: I'd say about 15 feet behind him you can see
the occasional reflection of the flashes of light,

where it looks to be there is a wall behind
him. There is an end to the chamber, but you're

too far away and it's too obscured by smoke for
you to know exactly what's behind him.

LIAM: And when I got in there, I didn't get close
enough to see if there was any good hiding spots

beyond him?

MATT: Make a perception check.

LIAM: 24.

MATT: 24. There are corners to the chamber. As
you fly up and glance you can see two more small

equal-sized pits of coals, behind him on either
side, and you do glance, two 20-foot-wide domed

machines that you see the flame and the billowing
smoke are being pushed out of. It's a weird

engine-like structure with two of them behind it,
that you can see the flames. (hammering) And

that's where the sparks are shooting out of each
time.

LIAM: Do the talking thing, I'm going to go back
in.

MARISHA: Before we start, how long has it been
since we entered this chamber?

MATT: It's been maybe ten minutes.

MARISHA: Entered into the volcano.

MATT: Oh, into the volcano?

MARISHA: Yeah, entered into the first forge room.
I'm trying to find out if Freedom of Movement is

still on.

MATT: Okay, with all of the smelting, put together
I'd say it's probably been close to an hour.

MARISHA: Can I only have one condition effect on
him? Or can I stack them up?

MATT: You can have as many as you put on him. If
they're not concentration, you can stack as many

as you want.

MARISHA: Okay, Freedom of Movement is not. I'm
going to cast Freedom of Movement on you again,

and then I think Enhance Ability is, though, so
I'm going to use my concentration to give you

Cat's Grace, right? You were using dexterity for
the smelting?

TRAVIS: Yeah, on that one.

TALIESIN: Yeah, it's would be dex or strength.

MATT: For most blacksmithing, you gather that it
will be dex or strength.

TRAVIS: Well, strength is way better than dex.

MARISHA: Then I'll give you Cat's Grace. You have
advantage on dex checks.

LIAM: And DM. How long were we in this room?

MATT: In that room? Since you entered that chamber
it's been about an hour.

LIAM: It's been an hour? My wings then are--

MATT: At this point, yeah, your wings have now
dissipated.

TRAVIS: Percy, I'm not afraid, go talk to this
thing.

TALIESIN: In Celestial, I'm going to say hello.
I'm going to say it out.

MATT: You shout it into the chamber?

TALIESIN: Hello? We come seeking the Allhammer. We
need help. Vecna walks the earth again. We come

seeking a way to defeat him once again.

LAURA: Tell him we were sent by Pelor.

TALIESIN: We come with the blessings of Pelor. And
I'm going to start entering, very gingerly.

TRAVIS: I'm right behind you.

MATT: Okay. So Percival is entering--

LIAM: Actually, I'll throw out that I crept back
in ahead of that, so in there, hiding.

LAURA: I'm floating behind him on a broom.

MATT: All righty. Scanlan, where are you coming in
on this?

SAM: I will lag behind Grog.

MATT: So we have Percival walking in, and who is
right behind Percival?

TALIESIN: Grog.

MATT: Grog, all righty. Scanlan right behind
Grog.

LAURA: Does it have to be single file with this?

MATT: No, it doesn't.

LAURA: Okay, then I'm going to be back over to the
side of Scanlan.

MATT: All right. Keyleth?

MARISHA: I'll take up the rears with my water
elemental.

LAURA: The ground is still super duper hot,
right?

MATT: The ground is, yes. All righty. So as you
begin to enter the chamber and make your way

towards the stairway and this central, raised
platform with the two flaming pillars that flank

it. Shouting this into the chamber, it echoes
through, and you still hear the (hammering). Each

flash of light causes this faint glow across your
faces and the faces of your companions as their

shapes go from dark obscured in the shadow and
smoke into a brief reveal of your form. As you

begin to approach the stairs, you hear this faint
grinding of stone as the faceless giant's head

slowly looks up to face you. But that's all.

TALIESIN: I keep walking.

TRAVIS: Me, too.

MATT: Okay. As you guys continue to walk, you get
to the bottom of the stairs, and you watch as one

of its hands on the side that clutches the hammer
unfurls and releases it and the hammer, once let

go, swings, the chain going taut and it slams into
the side of the raised platform out of sight and

as it does, it stands up and rights itself, but
its head is still looking down at you, Percival.

TALIESIN: We ask permission to use the anvil.

LAURA: Tell him, nod yes. Once for yes and shake
his head no.

TRAVIS: How about this? I'm not afraid. If he
takes offense, I'll take it better than most.

TALIESIN: That's fair.

MATT: So do you ascend the stairs?

TRAVIS: I am in the front now.

MATT: Grog has now moved to the front. All right.
And you take your first couple steps onto the

stairs. As you do, the large stone entity spins
around and steps into the smoke that obscures its

shoulders--

LAURA: I'm going to cast Cure Wounds on myself one
more time, while this is happening.

LIAM: I'm going to down a potion. And then a quick
question, too. Hunter's Mark has a duration of an

hour, but since that last battle lapsed, am I then
not allowed to slide it to this guy?

MATT: No, it's gone now. It has been more time-- the
process of smelting and then re-smelting and

figuring out and adjusting everything, it has
taken over an hour, sorry.

TRAVIS: Can I use my Second Wind? Just because.

MATT: Sure.

TALIESIN: Man, I could really use Spider Climb
right now, goddamn it.

TRAVIS: Heal 13 points.

MATT: All righty. So as you continue to step up
the stairs. Grog, as you approach, you get about a

third of the way up there and you hear what sounds
like heavy metal scraping against stone and one

giant burst of sound. You watch as the giant
figure shifts and turns back out of the smoke,

holding across its front in one hand a large
cleaver-like blade with runes glowing across the

side of it. About 15 feet or so from end to end,
and as it spins, it looks down towards you all and

holds it in front, the flat end facing out towards
you in a ceremonial way.

TALIESIN: What kind of runes?

MATT: Make an arcana check.

LAURA: Maybe if you use it the right way, it will
be fine.

TALIESIN: 11.

MATT: You have no idea.

TALIESIN: Okay.

MARISHA: Are they runes or a language? Is it a
script?

MATT: These are specifically arcane runes of an
enchantment-type nature. It's holding the blade

out in front like that, clutching the handle on
one side and putting its hand against the flat of

the blade in the other.

TALIESIN: Do we have our bits of god?

LAURA: Yeah.

TALIESIN: We might want to have them available for
the moment.

LAURA: Yeah. I take mine out of my pocket.

MATT: So Grog, go up to the top? You make it to
the very top of the stairs, and there is the anvil

there before you, and the heat you can feel. You
know when you're close to an explosion and there's

that brief minute of extremely uncomfortable
heat that you flinch? It's that, perpetually and

all of you are sweating masses beneath your
armor. You're afraid at certain points that your

eyebrows are beginning to singe and curl. It's
hard to breathe because the air is so hot and so

thick, and occasionally you can't help but find
yourself coughing at the caustic black smoke that

fills a large portion of the chamber.

TRAVIS: I am consciously checking my beard.

MATT: Okay. As you approach the top of the stairs,
the head looks down at you. What do you do?

TRAVIS: Am I standing at the anvil now?

MATT: You're standing right at the edge of the
stairs, the very top of the platform, and the

anvil's maybe five feet in front of you. You can
see all the chains that are hanging on the side

and dangling off the sides of the platform.

TRAVIS: Can I see where the chains are leading or
are they just dangling off?

MATT: The platform is about 20 feet wide and so
the chains that are all hooked at multiple places

to the edges and the outside part of the anvil are
taut and then dangling off the edge of the

platform. So you can't see where it goes. You know
one of them is the hammer, because that's what he

let fly off the side.

TALIESIN: I kept track of which one was the
hammer.

TRAVIS: Give me the platinum.

LAURA: Okay.

TRAVIS: Well, put it together first, please.
Thanks. With the platinum, I will approach the

anvil.

MATT: Okay. You step up to the edge of the anvil.
As it does, the blade tilts so that now, as

opposed to the flat facing you, one of the two
bladed edges is now--

TRAVIS: I stop.

LAURA: In your vision of how to do it, did you see
this guy?

TRAVIS: Did I? No. Do I see any blacksmithing
tools, anything that I would use to hammer this?

LAURA: The hammer that he let go of.

TRAVIS: Oh, that's hanging off?

MATT: You saw that, but you didn't get a great
look at it by the time it was chucked off the side.

TRAVIS: Flat. Edge. That does feel like a ready,
set.

LAURA and MARISHA: Yeah.

TRAVIS: I take one step back.

MATT: The blade goes to a flat.

MARISHA: So next, after the edge, is
decapitation.

TRAVIS: I'm pretty sure that would be 150 points
of damage.

LAURA: What if you go and try to pick up that
hammer first? Do you need it?

TRAVIS: I'm picturing the anvil right in front of
me and he's off to the side, right?

MATT: The anvil is right in front of you. He's on
the other side of the anvil. You only see the

upper part of the torso because he's standing off
the platform below it. So you see him from the waist

up; he's about 20 feet tall from top to bottom,
you only see ten feet of his torso there. The

blade's out in front.

TRAVIS: And the hammer is somewhere between me and
him?

MATT: Yeah. Make a perception check to see if you
remember which chain it was.

TRAVIS: Seven.

MATT: There's four chains on each side that are dangling
off the side, and you are not sure which one it is.

TRAVIS: Oh, it went hanging off.

MATT: It went held off the side, so now there
are four chains that are taut on each side of the

anvil that are vanishing.

TALIESIN: Is he another golem?

MATT: It looks to be a golem-like construct, yeah.
You have seen golems and you have encountered

golems before, and the constructs of them can
vary. This one, elements of it have the same

proportions of a golem, but there are elements
that seem more human-like as opposed to an armored

battering ram. The refined details of it-- no,
your perception roll isn't high enough and you're

too far away to make out much more of its form.

LAURA: Is his sword as big as our table is
across?

SAM: Oh, what if we show him one of our little
beans?

LAURA: Well, I pulled mine out.

SAM: Maybe you have to show him how good a
blacksmith you are to earn the privilege.

TRAVIS: Yeah, but I've got to get to the anvil to
do that.

MATT: Yeah, the blade in his hand, just the blade
from hilt to end is about 15 feet long.

MARISHA: Scanlan, can you read the arcane runes on
his sword? Do you know what this enchantment is?

SAM: I can certainly try.

MATT: Make an arcana check, Scanlan, as you glance
over, stepping into the edge of the stairs.

MARISHA: Can I help him?

MATT: No, it's purely based on his knowledge.

LAURA: You've got this Scanlan! Come on!

SAM: This is arcana?

MATT: Yes.

LIAM: Come on, vacation Scanlan.

SAM: It's a 21.

MATT: 21. The runes across the blade specifically
deal with cursing the physical form of what

touches its blade.

TRAVIS: Shit. Okay, cool. Instead of walking
towards the anvil, can I start walking to the

right, towards one of those chains that's dangling
on?

MATT: The chains are immediately to the left and
right of the anvil, so to go towards the chain

you'd be stepping closer to the anvil, and as you
turn to the side its head tracks you as you go.

TRAVIS: Is it tilting it down?

MATT: You haven't moved forward, so no.

TRAVIS: Okay. Can I keep moving in that
direction?

MATT: Okay, you begin to step forward towards the
chain. The blade comes down to a flat end towards you.

TRAVIS: I'll stop.

TALIESIN: I'm going to try and sneak around the
side of it. What's behind it?

MATT: Make a perception check.

TALIESIN: 19.

MATT: Okay. Glancing over, what you can see between
the smoke, you see the two pits of burning coals

to the-- behind, right and left of it, with small steps that
lead into the coals on each side and you see the

two edges of these large, cylindrical turbines of
stone and metal where the impacts are and the

flames flickering off it.

TALIESIN: Are those bellows or is it more
complicated?

MATT: You're not sure. A lot of it is obscured
from the smoke that's spilling out of it and you're

too far and the light's too dark in here,
from that distance.

TALIESIN: What would happen if we put that machine
out?

LAURA: Well, it's not like you can step up to the
anvil before the metal's hot anyway, right? So

maybe we're stepping up to the anvil too soon.
Maybe you have to heat the metal first?

TALIESIN: I think that it feels like a guardian.
What if we put the water elemental in the--

MARISHA: I was just going to say. I'm going to
come into the room a little bit.

MATT: Okay. So you step in. Most of you are 
at the base of the stairs. Grog is at the top of

the stairs. Scanlan stepped up behind him to look
at the runes on the blade. That's where you

currently reside.

MARISHA: Is his eyesight still trained on Grog?

MATT: Correct.

MARISHA: I'm going to send my water elemental
forward and see if it attracts its attention,

since it's not a mortal.

MATT: Where do you send it?

MARISHA: Towards the anvil.

MATT: Okay. So you head up the stairs. The water
elemental swarms around the side. You see wherever

it moves forward there's steam pouring off from
the heat of the ground and the surrounding metal

and stone. As it comes up the steps, more and more
steam (sizzling) emerging off the back of its

body, it comes to the top and it's now next to
Grog. You send it towards the anvil?

MARISHA: Yeah, but didn't Grog train to the
right?

MATT: Grog stepped to the right and then began to
step forward and then stopped.

MARISHA: Does the water elemental seem to be
catching its attention at all, or is it still

looking at Grog?

MATT: It's still looking at Grog.

MARISHA: Can I move the elemental to the left to
see if it follows the elemental?

MATT: Okay, the elemental moves to the left. It
doesn't follow the elemental.

LAURA: I wouldn't send him any closer to the
anvil, though.

TRAVIS: Well, he might swing at the thing if it
got closer.

MARISHA: That's what I'm wondering.

LAURA: It might send him in attack mode.

TRAVIS: So unless we're short on ideas, we might
have to starburst this thing. Scatter it.

SAM: Who forged here before? What god?

MATT: The Allhammer.

TRAVIS: Ioun helped, Pelor helped.

SAM: Well, should we show our god shit? Did we do
that yet?

LAURA: Well, yeah, I'm going to fly up next to
Grog, but I'm not going to go past him, and I'm

going to hold up the little bead of power.

MATT: Okay. His attention focuses in between the
two of you. Doesn't change his stance; the blade

is still tilted down towards you.

LAURA: I'm going to step one step forward with it,
no further than Grog stepped that first time.

MATT: Right, yeah. The blade is still turned
towards you. Doesn't seem to react.

LAURA: All right, I back up. Fuck!

TRAVIS: You thinkers better think.

TALIESIN: I want to put the engineering behind it
out. I want to put those pistons out.

MARISHA: But what if the pistons are fueling the
fires, the forge?

TRAVIS: We still can't see what's sending up
those?

MATT: You're not close enough, and you don't have
a far enough view. It's blocking the bulk of it.

LAURA: I'm going to fly to the side against the
wall.

TRAVIS: What about an Oracle Arrow?

LAURA: Yeah, that's what I was going to do, so I
could shoot it around.

MATT: Okay. So you fly off to the side of the
chamber.

LAURA: Yeah, and I'm going to shoot an oracle
arrow behind him to see what's going on over there.

MATT: Okay. You go and fire the arrow just past
him. As you do, his head darts with the speed of

the arrow as it clacks against the back of the
wall. Without even looking towards you, this hand

releases the blade and the blade swings a wide arc
about a foot above your head, Grog. (whoosh) Slams

something in the back of the wall out of sight.
You hear what sounds like a heavy chain snapping

and falling to the ground and the wall behind you
where you entered the chamber (crash) slams shut.

As you all hear the sound and take in the scenery,
you watch as it retracts the blade into an

offensive position, and we're going to take a
break. We'll be back here in just a moment, guys.

We have a giveaway.

LAURA: I wasn't even shooting at him!

LIAM: That's all right. We did our due diligence.
We poked it and we prodded it.

MATT: This is a big package going out to a bunch
of folks there. It's the complete black poisonwood

set, which is awesome. It's the tray, the vault,
the dice tower. Oh god, it's all falling. It might

be a little broken; I apologize in advance.

SAM: It smells of coffee.

MATT: Exactly. That's what it looks like. It's
going to be signed by the cast for you. So to be

entered in that giveaway, come into the Twitch
chat over the break, and the keyword is going to

be tarot. T-A-R-O-T. So yeah, we'll all be back
here in a few minutes, guys. Enjoy your break, and

we'll see you in a minute.

[break]

MATT: Hello everyone, and welcome back to Critical
Role. So! First and foremost, our winner in the

chat of the awesome collection of various Wyrmwood
collectables is ProfessorJedi. Congratulations,

ProfessorJedi. Danoba will contact you and get
your information to get those to you ASAP. So

congrats.

MARISHA: Also, I've been flooded with tweets on
where I got this shirt.

LIAM: It's the best shirt.

TALIESIN: And I was wearing it yesterday.

MARISHA: You were wearing it yesterday. The
amazing Whitney Moore made it.

LIAM: This very shirt? This one?

TALIESIN: A more masculine cut of this exact
shirt. Not that exact shirt, but another one very

similar to it.

MARISHA: Although we do have a few shirts that we
share and trade off.

LAURA: Tell us where to get it.

MARISHA: For Human Peoples! I just tweeted it
out.

TALIESIN: You can get a pin, you can get a hoodie,
you can get any form you want.

LIAM: I know you, so I'll ask you later, too.

MARISHA: Yeah, okay.

MATT: All right, then. So last we left off, you
had made your way into the chamber that holds the

Core Anvil beneath the underwater volcano of
Scaldseat. Upon approaching the central risen

platform where the anvil was, some stone-built
guardian that loomed over it, upon approaching and

testing the boundaries, an unintentional firing
of an arrow in the vicinity seemed to have

triggered an aggressive stance, and the entity
seems to be on the assault. So now, with the

chamber there before you, I would like you all to
take stock on your current positions and roll

initiative.

LIAM: He's going to hit you like he is at a
driving range!

TRAVIS: Yeah. Yeah, like tee-ball.

MARISHA: I'm also rolling for my elemental.

TRAVIS: Oh, that's really unfortunate. I get
advantage on those, and that was terrible.

MATT: All righty. So 25 to 20?

TALIESIN: 24.

LIAM: 20. Jeez.

MATT: All righty. 20 to 15?

TRAVIS: 20 to 15? For the love of god?

MATT: Okay. 15 to ten?

LAURA: 14.

SAM: 12.

MARISHA: 11 for my elemental.

TALIESIN: What?

MARISHA: 11 for my elemental.

TALIESIN: You're not? Okay.

MATT: Ten to five?

TRAVIS and MARISHA: Six.

TALIESIN: Oh. Six?

LAURA: We are fucked!

MATT: Top of the round. As the large forge
guardian stands with its giant rune blade before

it, Percival. You're up first. What are you
doing?

LAURA: Make peace!

(laughter)

TRAVIS: When the DM smirks like that.

TALIESIN: I'm going to bake a pie and deliver it--
okay, I'm going to run back towards that red

crystal.

MATT: This one?

TALIESIN: Yep. I run that direction, and then I'm
going to use my bonus action to do that. I'm going

to hold my attack until his attack.

MATT: Okay. Good to know. All right, that ends
Percival's turn, holding his action to attack when

it attacks. Vax, you're up.

LIAM: Oh jeez. You know what, I tell you what I'm
going to do. I'm going to run over right next to

Keyleth.

MATT: All righty. 20, 25, 30. That's about as far
as you can get on regular movement.

LIAM: Right. I know what I want to do here. Is
Percy within 30 feet of me?

MATT: Percy is, yes.

LIAM: Okay. I'm going to cast Bless on Scanlan,
Keyleth, and Percy.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: What does that do?

LAURA: Obviously doesn't give a shit about me any
more.

MARISHA: Well, you stole the boots.

LAURA: I gave them back!

LIAM: You're so capable. You bless up to three
creatures of your choice within range. Whenever a

target makes an attack roll or a saving throw
before this spell ends, the target can roll a d4

and add the number. So you three.

MARISHA: Attack roll or saving throw?

MATT: Yes, you can add a d4 to it. Your movement
and your action?

LIAM: That's my action. I have a bonus action.
This is an intimidating map, Matt. I am going to

roll backward and sit underneath my sister and her
judgemental ass.

MATT: Okay. So you're going to dash over under
her?

LIAM: Yep.

MATT: There you go.

LAURA: Top of my turn, I'm going to fart.

MATT: (chuckles) It's how she propels the broom.

MARISHA: It immediately catches your butt on fire
because we're surrounded by methane gas. You take

four damage.

LAURA: And you're on fire.

MARISHA: And you're on fire, yeah.

TALIESIN: This is really intimidating. The
crystals are glowing, and it makes me unhappy. Is

your crystal red, too?

(gasping)

TALIESIN: No! Not cool.

LAURA: He can walk! He can move!

MATT: Steps, leaps--

LIAM: Fuck yourself! Wow!

MATT: It lands in the center.

TRAVIS: Look at him winding up. This is awful.

MATT: With his legs down, straddling the two sides
of this, and he's going to go into a blade storm,

and spins around in a wide arc.

TALIESIN: Okay. So if he's going to do this, I was
holding my attack. I'm taking my attack now right

before this happens. He has no face, does he?

MATT: Currently, you do not see a face, no.

TALIESIN: There's no face. So if I were to make a
head attack, that would probably be really goddamn

useless. One way to find out.

MARISHA: Well, he has a head. You can have a face
and not a head.

TRAVIS and TALIESIN: Maybe it's a mask.

LAURA: Maybe it's an illusion.

TALIESIN: Fire a grit.

MARISHA: Did you custom mess with this figure? You
did, didn't you?

MATT: Just to cover the face.

TALIESIN: To hide his shame. Do I add the d4 to
this, if I so am inclined?

MATT: Yes.

TALIESIN: And I can do it every time?

MATT: Every attack, yeah.

TALIESIN: Oh wow, this is so nuts. So first
attack. Out of curiosity, does it keep my misfire?

Does it knock me out of misfire, technically?

MATT: It's still rolling on the d20.

TALIESIN: Goddamn it. Okay. Let's put that away,
then, and let's take some psychic damage, because

that's funny. Oh, that's great. Okay.

MATT: Nine points of psychic damage.

TALIESIN: Yeah, so 142, that's cool. Ow. I'm going
to put that down and get a bigger gun and try that

again. And that blows that grit, as well. Much
better! No, it's not. Oh my god. Oh my fucking

god. It's just doing it. Never mind. I'm going to
blow the rest of it and spend the end of my turn

trying to fix one of my guns really quickly, and
do a quick clear-out. Which is 12 versus misfire

on the psychic. And I do!

MATT: You manage to clear the weapon.

TALIESIN: I cleared Animus. Bad News is still out
of commission. And that's my turn. Never mind.

MATT: So as the blade storm, it does a large sweep
all the way around it with the blade, hitting

everything within 15 feet of it.

SAM: Is it an automatic hit, or is it something I
can do Cutting Words on?

MATT: It's a roll to hit, but Cutting Words would
affect a single attack against an individual.

Yeah, because each attack roll is separate, so it
would affect one of the attack rolls.

SAM: Well, I will Cutting Words it for my attack.
No, he's going to hit me no matter what. Who's in

the path?

MATT: Well, let's find out first. So it's going to
be Vex, Vax, Scanlan, and Grog. And then Keyleth

and Percy are out of range, as well as the
elemental. So against Vex that is a 17.

LAURA: Doesn't hit.

MATT: Doesn't it, and you dodge out of the way.
For Vax, 17.

LIAM: Nope.

MATT: Rolled two threes in a row. Striking around
to Grog, that is a 24.

TRAVIS: That'll hit. Can I try my parry maneuver?

MATT: What does the parry do?

TRAVIS: It uses your dex modifier plus the--

LAURA: Sup dice? He really wrote sup dice.

MATT: Yes, you can, to reduce the attack by your
superiority dice plus your dexterity modifier. Yep.

TRAVIS: I'm going to try. Seven plus two. Nine?

MATT: So you would take 37 points of slashing
damage, but instead you take nine away. That would

be 28. So you get 28 points of slashing damage.

TRAVIS: I'm not raging.

TALIESIN: And you took 28 points.

MATT: And you are pushed 15 feet away. You are now
right off, you get knocked over the side. You get

knocked prone off onto the edge of the platform
there, almost catching yourself before rolling off

the side of the platform.

LIAM: It's so exciting!

MATT: Scanlan, that is a natural two. That's a 16
to hit.

SAM: It will hit, but I will do my Cutting Words.

MATT: Okay, so roll a d12.

SAM: Okay, a d12. I rolled a nine.

MATT: Okay, so that will miss you. As it swings
towards you, what do you do?

SAM: I will quote Dr. Smith again and I will yell
at him: you are a tiresome, tin-plated,

tintinnabulation.

MATT: The second construct you've bruised the ego
of today. I need you to make a constitution saving

throw, Grog.

TRAVIS: Okay. 18, with a minus two.

MATT: 18? No. Your vision fades as the curse takes
hold. You are considered blinded at the moment.

TRAVIS: Okay. Anybody else? Lights out for anyone
else?

MATT: And that's its turn. Vex, you're up.

TRAVIS: No big deal.

LAURA: Oh jeebies. Oh! I can use disengage! So he
doesn't hit me! I'm going to move away from him.

MATT: Okay, where do you move?

LAURA: All the way across, over here.

MATT: Well, your movement with your broom is? How
fast is your broom?

LAURA: I don't remember because I don't have the
thing anymore.

MATT: (heavy sigh)

LAURA: I know, Matthew! I think it's 40.
Probably.

MATT: Broom of Flying: 50 feet.

LIAM: Wow, that was fast!

MATT: Look at that. Analog!

LAURA: 50 feet. I'm writing it down right now,
okay?

MATT: You can get right over right above where
Percival is. So that's your bonus action to

disengage, your movement to get there. What are
you doing now?

LAURA: I'm going to attack him.

MATT: Go for it.

LAURA: That dice attacked me while I rolled it. A
23.

MATT: 23 misses.

TALIESIN: What?!

TRAVIS: 23 misses?

MATT: Yeah. You strike the armor on the side of
its body, and the arrow disintegrates on impact.

You see bits of it catch flame from the nearby
heat.

LAURA: Oh lord. Okay. I thought because he was
big, maybe. Is he covered head to toe in armor?

MATT: It's made of solid stone with pieces of
metal armor around the body.

LAURA: Great. Okay, so I'm going to attack him
again but in his neck. Oh, that's good. That

probably hits. 18 plus 14.

MATT: That'll hit, yeah.

LAURA: Okay, I didn't want to do the math.
(counting) Do I get sneak attack?

MATT: He is in base to base with your brother, so
yes.

LAURA: Wait, that's lightning. One extra lightning
damage and then nine sneak attack.

MATT: Okay, so the total on that is?

LAURA: 17 plus nine is 27.

MATT: 26, yeah.

LAURA: Plus one lightning damage, so it's 27.

MATT: Right, there you go. All right, cool. The
first arrow shatters, the second one you manage to

strike and it embeds itself in the stone, and
sticking out. It's hard to see if it had made much

of an impact. That ends your turn, and that brings
us to Scanlan.

SAM: Me? Oh Jesus. This thing's big and scary.

MATT: You're on the top of the staircase next to
the water elemental and Grog, who's currently on

the ground screaming that he's blind. The entity
is about 15 feet away from you. You're just out of

range of its blade, and it's an intimidating thing
to have that close to you.

SAM: Yeah! Of course it is! I'm not dumb. Super
intimidating! So how far is he from me?

MATT: He's about 16 feet from you. You're just out
of range of the blade. Well, no. Actually, because

it did hit you, so on the edge of there, you are
within 15 feet of him, yeah.

SAM: Okay, not knowing what to do, I will
(raspberry). I'm looking at my spells; I've got

nothing. I will blast him with a Lightning Bolt, a
level three Lightning Bolt.

MATT: Level three Lightning Bolt. Okay, so roll 8d6
points of damage.

SAM: You know what, I'll do level four, so 9d6, I
suppose.

MATT: All righty, so that is a natural 20. So
that's advantage on the saving throw. However, its

dexterity bonus is nothing. It's a straight 20.
Your spell DC?

SAM: 22.

MATT: 22, so it does not make the save.

SAM: So it's 34 points of damage.

MATT: 34 points of lightning damage to it. The
bolt hits it and seems to arc through, and its

faceless head slowly shifts to face you.

SAM: Jesus. I'm within melee range of him, so if I
move I will get hit, yes?

MATT: If you move out of his melee range, you
will, yes.

SAM: Okay.

MATT: You'll get attacked. Doesn't mean you'll get
hit.

SAM: Grog, you're okay, right?

TRAVIS: I'm blind! It's very hot!

SAM: What?

TRAVIS: It's very hot! On the ground, and I'm
blind!

SAM: I don't know what to do about you, I'm sorry!
I'll inspire you, I guess, right? Because you

don't need health?

TRAVIS: Yeah, great, thanks!

SAM: (laughs) Sorry! All right, I'll inspire him,
I suppose.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: Sorry, Grog.

TRAVIS: What do you sing?

SAM: Oh, sorry. I will pick up my flute and I will
sing: (singing) You like it when my flute goes,

baby make your booty glow, Scanlan know you want
to show my song, song, song, song, song.

TRAVIS: Is that Sisq?!

MATT: Take your d12. All righty. That's your
bonus, your action, and are you going to stay

where you are or are you going to move?

SAM: Yeah, I'm going to stay where I am.

MATT: Okay. Ending that turn, it comes to the
elemental. Actually, no. At the end of Scanlan's

turn, it's going to go ahead and use a legendary
action to make a rune blade strike against Vax,

who's right in front of him. That is a 22 to hit.

LIAM: And this is a straight-up attack. Yeah, I
believe that hits. Yes, it does.

MATT: Okay.

LIAM: Wait. I'll use my last Luck of the day on
him, and he has to reroll.

MATT: Okay.

MARISHA: Wait.

LIAM: Wait.

MATT: That is a 19.

LIAM and MATT: No.

(cheering)

TRAVIS: Well done!

MATT: So as the blade arcs overhead towards you,
you barely duck out of the way. It slams on the

ground, sending shards of stone and metal up in
the air around you. You feel it rain over your

shoulder and the back of your head as you slowly
pull away from it. All righty, now it is the

elemental's turn.

MARISHA: Okay, it's going to move over to him. And
he's bigger than large, so he's going to do a

multiattack. He's going to do two slam attacks.
Plus seven to hit. (groans) One's a natural one;

the other's a natural 18. So one hits. 2d8 plus
four bludgeoning damage.

MATT: What's the attack? 18 plus?

MARISHA: 18 plus seven.

MATT: Okay, so it would be 25? That hits. Are the
creature's attacks considered magical?

MARISHA: They're two bludgeoning attacks.

MATT: Nowhere on there does it say it does magical
damage?

MARISHA: It just says bludgeoning damage.

MATT: Okay. So as the elemental swings out both
fists against it, no effect. None of its attacks

seem to have any effect or impact on the creature.
It's like bludgeoning the side of a mountain.

TALIESIN: Okay. Good to know.

MARISHA: And he doesn't seem to be distracted or
give two shits about him.

MATT: Not at the moment, no.

MARISHA: Okay. Cool.

TALIESIN: There's a lot of fires to put out, I
guess.

MARISHA: Yeah. You know, I'll keep him on standby
in case people catch on fire.

MATT: (laughs) Okay. That ends the elemental's
turn, then? Grog and Keyleth, you're up.

MARISHA: What did you find out?

TRAVIS: How about you go first?

MARISHA: Okay. I'm going to do 9th-level
Shapechange and take a cue from Scanlan and turn

into a planetar.

LIAM: Ooh! Do you have a big dick, too?

SAM: You can do that?

MARISHA: Yes I can. With Shapechange. Right? It is
a challenge rating that I can do, right?

Planetars?

MATT: Yeah, you can.

MARISHA: Okay.

MATT: You lose concentration on the elemental.

MARISHA: That's fine.

TALIESIN: Not like he was really--

MARISHA: Doing much.

MATT: But the elemental stays and is now hostile
to you.

MARISHA: Right. Can't dissipate him or anything?

MATT: I forgot your figure again! I'm the worst!

TALIESIN: I was going to say, can you dissipate
it?

MARISHA: Not really.

TALIESIN: Oh. That's okay.

MATT: So the planetar size is large. We'll say for
the purposes once again of this week, we'll use

Doty as the planetar, so there you are.

LAURA: But he says it in Swedish.

TALIESIN and MARISHA: Dooty.

MATT: Your wings extend. You are now in the
planetar form.

MARISHA: Okay. I'm going to go up to Grog and do
Healing--

MATT: Well, your action is to cast the spell.

MARISHA: (groans) So I can't do anything else?

MATT: No, Shapechange takes an action to make the
transformation. Next turn you can take your

action.

LAURA: It's okay. That's great. Grog definitely
won't fall in the lava on his turn.

MARISHA: I was going to say, can I at least go up
to him and grab onto Grog's loincloth to make sure

his ass doesn't tumble into the lava?

MATT: You could certainly try.

TALIESIN: You could kind of do that.

SAM: Loin-grab.

MATT: So we'll say for the purposes of this, you
glide over, and you're now flying up next to Grog

on the edge of the platform. There you go.

LAURA: To keep him from wandering off.

MARISHA: Yeah.

MATT: Okay. That ends your turn. Grog?

TRAVIS: Cool. Can I use my action to get up from
being prone? Half my movement, sorry. Onto one

knee. In my mind, because I can't see! And can I
hold my action until I can see again or until it's

my turn?

MATT: It's your turn.

TRAVIS: Until I can see again.

TALIESIN: You don't get to save against this, does
he?

MATT: No. Nope. All right. So that ends Grog's
turn, holding his action.

TRAVIS: Crouched, so both hands are on the
ground.

MATT: Okay. At the end of your turn, it's going to
use another legendary action to take another swing

at the slippery little rogue paladin on the ground
that it can't seem to hit. Natural one. Jesus

Christ. Okay. That'll be the end of that luck.

LIAM: That demigod does not exist in this
universe.

MATT: Percival, your turn.

TALIESIN: So first thing I'm going to do is get a
quick little heal bonus going, because why not.

Let's do a heal. So that's 14 points up, so I'm
156. A little bit better, and that's my heal. I'm

noticing that this thing's only taking magic
damage. The hammer it dropped is underneath the

planetar right now, right?

MATT: It is currently dangling off the side, along
with other series of tools: tongs and other

smaller blacksmithing accoutrements.

TALIESIN: I'm going to run in that direction.

MATT: Okay. Five, ten, 15, 20. Another step, and
you're starting to hit the molten metal and rock.

TALIESIN: Molten metal and rock? I can't jump
that, can I?

MATT: You can try, yeah. Make an athletics check.

TALIESIN: Not an acrobatics check, I take it?

MATT: Not for the leap.

TALIESIN: But there are chains that I can reach
there?

MATT: If you're leaping towards the chains, you can
attempt to grab it, yeah.

TALIESIN: Well, I'm going to attempt to grab
the hammer.

MATT: Okay. Are you using it to swing, or are you just
trying to grab and hold on?

TALIESIN: If it's available for a swing, I'll try
for a swing.

MATT: Okay, I'll give you advantage if you're
going for the chain, then, as you're swinging

across it. Go for it.

TALIESIN: Roll with advantage? Athletics?

MATT: Athletics.

MARISHA: Please don't fucking fall in lava.

TALIESIN: Natural 20.

(cheering)

MATT: Percival runs, swings across, and I'll move
this a bit.

LIAM: Oh, the golem is dead.

MATT: Percival barely makes it across. (grunts) If
you let go of the chain, you'll land. If you hold

onto it you'll dangle and swing in the center.

TALIESIN: This is the hammer chain?

MATT: Yeah.

TALIESIN: So am I touching the hammer right now?
But it's not a magic hammer, it's just a really

nice hammer.

MATT: You just grabbed it. You can take a moment to look
at it next round, if you want to.

TALIESIN: Yeah, I'm going to take a moment to look
at it. I've got an action, still.

MATT: Do you want to do that, then?

TALIESIN: Yeah, I'll use my action to admire the
hammer.

MATT: Okay. Make a arcana check. As you're
clutching the hammer now, it's dangling down, and

you're holding onto it. And the heat is burning
from underneath you, and you can see the

(bubbling noises).

TALIESIN: No. I have an arcana of seven.

MATT: Seven. You're distracted by everything going
on around you and the heat in your face. You can

see it above you, the black and gold scrolling on
it. It looks beautiful, but you can't make out any

more details than that, unfortunately.

TALIESIN: God fucking damn it. Okay, I'm hopping
off, then.

MATT: You swing back, you swing, and then you
land. We'll say because you rolled a natural 20,

I'll let you do that.

TALIESIN: Yeah, all right. I'm over there, hiding.
Fuck.

MATT: Okay, that ends Percy's turn. At the end of
Percy's turn, it's going to use its third and

final--

LIAM: Damn it. What? Where did the big guy go?
There he is!

SAM: He's trying to kill the cricket.

MATT: You did it? Good job.

LAURA: It shut him up for a little bit.

LIAM: Can't get the golem, but you can get the
cricket.

MATT: (laughs) Well done. All right, at the end of
Percival's turn, it's going to use its third and

final legendary action to to try and get that hit
on you. Natural 20.

(groaning)

TRAVIS: Oh my god, really?

LIAM: Making up for the last time. Fine, give it
to me.

LAURA: No, can you uncanny dodge?

LIAM: I can uncanny dodge, yes.

LAURA: Don't you have another thing?

LIAM: Just uncanny dodge, so maybe I can cancel
out his doubling. Yeah. Uncanny dodge halves the

attack, so it'll be right where it's supposed to
be.

TALIESIN: Technically, it'll lower slightly lower
than where it's supposed to be, because it doesn't

just halve the doubling of the dice.

MATT: 57 points of slashing damage.

LIAM: Uncanny dodge.

MATT: All right, reduce that to 28 points of damage
and your vision goes dark.

LAURA: Oh no. Wait, don't you have to roll the
constitution?

MATT: That's true. Roll constitution save.

LIAM: Not good. 14.

MATT: Your vision goes dark. It hits you, and you
hit the ground, and the sheer-- the searing pain

hits your body, and as you get up, it feels like
all the smoke fills your vision. All you see are

occasional flashes of red, almost like you're
surrounded by a miniaturized electrical storm, and

you have no idea what's around you.

MARISHA: So he's blind?

MATT: You're considered blind for the moment, yes.
It's your turn.

LIAM: Okay, I would like to cast Vow of Enmity on
this dick, which will put me at regular, because I

would get advantage versus the disadvantage of
blindness, so now I'm at regular.

LAURA: Is it a visual spell?

MATT: That's what I'm checking right now.

LIAM: Oh, wow. I've got it here.

MARISHA: Yeah, spellcasting's a bitch.

MATT: Vow of Enmity. Creature you can see within
ten feet of you. You cannot currently see it.

TRAVIS: Shit, y'all. Fuck.

LIAM: Okay. Instead, I'll use my bonus action to
cast Hunter's Mark.

MATT: You need--

LIAM: Visual on that as well? Okay, got it, never
mind. It's not his turn yet, wow. Okay, I'm going

to use my bonus action to disengage. I can move
five, ten, 15, 20, 25, 30. And I'm going to get

the fuck out of here. Five, ten, 15, 20, 25, 30,
there. And that's it, I'm fucking blind and I ran

because I can't see shit. Done.

MATT: All right, that ends your turn. It's now its
turn. It gets its legendary actions back.

LAURA: Guys, this is bad. We haven't actually done
anything to him, have we? No, I got an arrow on him.

TALIESIN: You got an arrow, which didn't probably
do any physical--

LAURA: It was a magical arrow.

MATT: See if it gets its blade storm back. Nope.

TRAVIS: Probably should have cast the mansion door
before we started.

TALIESIN: We can still do that.

TRAVIS: It takes a minute to cast.

TALIESIN: Oh shit.

MARISHA: We can make this work.

LAURA: We can't even run away.

LIAM: He's coming to finish me off. Look at this
motherfucker!

LAURA: He's going to kill all of us, dude. He can
get all of us in a circle. Everybody.

MARISHA: I lost control of my elemental.

MATT: Here's what it's going to do. Because you
ran off. It hit you; it's not even focused on you.

The head turns and looks towards you, Vex'ahlia.
It's going to make a rune blade attack against

you. Oh jeez. That is a 17.

LAURA: Doesn't hit.

MATT: Jesus Christ, it has rolled so many twos and
threes, then 20. It swings and you dodge out of

the way. However, hearing the skittering of a gnome
behind him, without even looking, it back-kicks

behind it with its foot.

LAURA: (gasps) Oh my god.

MATT: That is going to be a 21, Scanlan.

SAM: Oh, yeah, of course.

MATT: All right, so you take 23 points of
bludgeoning damage and you are pushed 15 feet away

from it and knocked prone.

LAURA and MARISHA: No!

MATT: I need you to make a dexterity saving throw,
Scanlan.

LIAM: Hey, you're blessed, so add 1d4.

SAM: Oh yeah, that's right. Okay, that's
terrible.

LIAM: Plus 1d4.

SAM: So I've already rolled a 13, plus a d4. This
is not going to go well, is it? d4 is another one.

That's 14.

LAURA: Can you inspire yourself?

SAM: What?

LIAM and LAURA: Inspire yourself.

SAM: This is not a check; this is a save.

MATT: Well, let me double check on that for your
bardic ability. And how many more bardic

inspirations do you have at this point, by the
way?

SAM: I've only used two.

MATT: You used Cutting Words, you've inspired
Keyleth, and you've inspired Grog.

SAM: Oh, Cutting Words counts? Then I've used four
so far, and I have two more to go.

MATT: Two more to go. And as far as your peerless
skill, you can add it to any ability check, yeah,

so not a save, unfortunately.

SAM: All right, bye guys.

MATT: What was the total?

SAM: 14.

TALIESIN: Is that including your dex save?

SAM: Yeah.

TALIESIN: Oh, wow.

MATT: Scanlan gets pushed off the edge and falls
prone (sizzling) into the molten metal below.

TALIESIN: Oh man. This is so bad.

TRAVIS: That's a lot of dice he's picking up.

MATT: You're on fire.

SAM: Sure, sure.

TRAVIS: I feel like you're filling a playground with
gravel right now. I feel like he's playing putt

putt golf with us.

LIAM: Well, he's strung us along on several
battles to get all of our juice out.

MARISHA: Yeah, he really has. We need to rest.

MATT: You take 53 points of fire damage, Scanlan,
as you are currently now partially submerged in

molten metal and screaming in horrible pain.

LIAM: Man. Boy, it sucks, doesn't it, buddy?

SAM: But with vibrato.

MATT: That's going to end its turn. Vex, you're
up.

LAURA: Great. I'm going to disengage.

MATT: Okay, so you use your bonus action to
disengage. Where are you going?

LAURA: I'm going to go over to Grog.

MATT: All right, so you fly over, and where are
you going?

LAURA: I'm going to fly next to him and I'm going
to touch him and I'm going to cast Lesser

Restoration on him.

MATT: Okay. You use your action to cast Lesser
Restoration. So the Lesser Restoration affects--

LAURA: Heals blindness and deafness.

LIAM: Good, go to the 250 hit point guy. Good
call.

LAURA: He needs to be able to fucking see so he
can smith while we're trying to distract this

fucker.

MATT: The blindness fades as she touches you. Your
vision comes back.

TRAVIS: Cool. Oh, right, then I held my action for
that.

LAURA: Yeah, that's the thing, he was holding.

TRAVIS: Should I try and smith?

TALIESIN: Here's the question. I should know this:
how quickly can these things be made?

MATT: Well, to be honest, the process of each
trammel is going to be a 15-minute process. You

can't hyper-smith in the middle of battle.

(groaning)

LAURA: Well. Okay. Do I have any more movement left?

MATT: That's 15 minutes if it's a straight
multiple people helping circumstance.

LAURA: Do I have any more movement left?

MATT: Not really. You had to go over an arc to get
there.

TALIESIN: You could grab the hammer.

TRAVIS: Yeah, but what purpose would it serve?

TALIESIN: I don't know. Maybe it's a control
hammer. I don't know. I'm grasping at fucking

straws here.

MATT: Vex?

LAURA: That's my last level two that I cast.

TRAVIS: I could try.

TALIESIN: You've got actions.

LAURA: Great, so I don't have any more Lesser
Restorations. I can cast it at a higher level,

maybe.

MARISHA: You also still have Freedom of Movement
on you. You don't have anything else at all; I got

lost concentration. But you do have Freedom of
Movement.

TRAVIS: Yeah.

TALIESIN: Grabbing that hammer is definitely an
option.

LAURA: I don't know why you would grab the
hammer.

TRAVIS: Maybe he'd stop moving if I grabbed the
hammer?

MATT: Vex, is that all you're doing this turn?

LAURA: I mean that's all I can do. That's my
action, my bonus, and my movement.

MATT: Yep, all right, so Scanlan.

TRAVIS: Oh, but I held my action until I had
sight.

MATT: Correct, you have sight now. What are you
going to attack? Because you can't move, it's just

your action.

TRAVIS: You're on the hammer, aren't you?

TALIESIN: I let go.

TRAVIS: Should I try pulling up the hammer and see
if that does something? Okay, I'll try and pull

the chain up to grab the hammer.

MATT: Technically, when you're holding your action
to do something, like an attack, you can only do

that because it's a reaction, a very quick thing.
Basically, as soon as you get your vision you're

like, (panting).

TRAVIS: I will rage, and that's it.

MATT: I'll let you rage on that, sure.

MARISHA: Can he attack the elemental that's now
rogue across from him?

MATT: He's not within range, unfortunately. It's
across the way.

TRAVIS: Can I turn around and look, now that I'm
right up next to the Core Anvil, is there anything

that I'm noticing about it that would move or
knock off? A switch or a button?

MATT: Make a perception check.

TRAVIS: Doesn't look just like a flipping anvil. Yeah,
okay, cool. That's a two.

LIAM: This is such a shit-show! Love it!

MATT: It looks like an anvil, a beautiful anvil, a
primal built, ageless anvil.

TRAVIS: I never see shit!

LIAM: Hey, that's my magic trick!

MATT: All right, so Scanlan. You're currently
submerged in molten metal, screaming, on fire.

Your turn begins and you take six points of fire
damage. You're prone and sinking into it. What are

you doing?

LAURA: You should probably get out, right?

SAM: I guess, yeah, probably. (laughs) I will, I
guess, save my life and Dimension Door out of

there.

MATT: Okay, you Dimension Door out of the lava?

SAM: Yes, please. I have no other options.

MATT: You can walk out of it. You're right next to
the edge.

SAM: Oh, I'm next to the edge?

MATT: Yeah, you could pull yourself out of it.

SAM: Oh. Well, I'll try that first with my
movement, I guess, right?

MATT: Yeah, with your movement you get out. You're
ten feet out of it. You're on fire still, but

you're no longer melting in the lava. You're hurt,
but you turn the corner and you can see the giant

guardian that is now currently facing off with the
rest of your allies on the other side of the

platform in the far corner of the room. You're
staring at its back. What are you doing?

SAM: Oh boy. I wasn't expecting to attack this
turn. I'll do the lightning again because it seemed

to have some damage. No, you know what? We've got
to block his sword, right? Shit. I will Bigby's

Hand and try to grapple his sword.

MATT: Okay, you're doing another Bigby's Hand? And
you'll attempt to grapple his sword?

SAM: Yes.

MATT: All righty.

SAM: I don't know if that's going to work at all.

MATT: Well, let's give it a shot. Bigby's Hand
moves over here.

LIAM: Oh, he's dead! He's dead, Matt. Game over.

MATT: If we go by that tactic, Bigby's Hand's
dead. You've all died. I'll put him there.

Percival has been dead for a long time. We'll put
that there. That's good. There you go. All right.

LAURA: I want to try to move Bigby's Hand to hold
on to his arm. Can I try it?

MATT: If you want to. Grasping Hand?

SAM: I guess. This is supposed to be against a
creature, not against an item.

MATT: Right, I'm letting you do this, though. It's
fine. It makes sense. It's big enough. Make an

athletics check, using the strength of Bigby's
Hand, which is a plus eight. Roll a d20 and add

eight to it.

SAM: It's a 19.

LIAM: Blessed! Hashtag blessed!

SAM: 19.

TALIESIN: Plus a d4.

SAM: Plus three, so that's 22.

MATT: 22. It rolled a 19.

(cheering)

MATT: It is grappling the blade. What that means
is, for the purposes of this, all of its attacks

are at disadvantage until it can break free from
Bigby holding the blade.

LIAM: Bigby's Hand!

MATT: That's your turn, unless you want to use a
bonus action for something.

SAM: I will use a bonus action to level two Healing
Word myself.

MATT: Go for it.

SAM: I will sing, (singing) I'm freaked out by the
shape of me! I'm burned up and nobody can see. So

you know what I'll do to thee? Give some health to
my body. (vocalizing)

(laughter)

MATT: Damn it, Sam. Take your 2d4 plus six.
Finishing that out, it is the elemental's turn.

MARISHA: He is slowly steaming away, right,
because it's so hot?

MATT: You're not going to rules-lawyer me out of
the elemental.

(laughter)

MATT: It makes a slam attack against both Vex and
Grog. Vex, that's a 15 plus seven, 22. And Grog,

that's a 17 plus seven, 24. What's the bludgeoning
damage from the elemental?

MARISHA: It's 2d8 plus four.

MATT: Vex, you take 15 points of bludgeoning
damage. Grog, you take 11 points of bludgeoning

damage, reduced to five.

LIAM: Where you at, big guy?

TRAVIS: 190.

MATT: Grog and Keyleth. Your turn. Keyleth, you
now have complete control of your form.

MARISHA: Now people know why I don't conjure that
many elementals. I'm going to go fly away, since

Grog is now fine. Go over to my boyfriend. Would
it be part of my movement to grab him and pull him

away a little bit, and then can I still have an
action, or would that be my action?

MATT: No, that would be your action.

MARISHA: Then I'm going to fly by and do a Healing
Touch on you. You get 6d8 plus three hit points

and you are freed from your blindness.

LIAM: Oh, I love you so much!

LAURA: That's amazing! Hey, Scanlan, you should
have done that before. That would have been really cool.

LIAM: Holy shit!

MARISHA: 12 plus four, 15. No, 16. Plus another
three brings us to 19. Plus another four brings us

to 22. 23. And then a three brings us to 26 hit
points and you are cleared from your blindness.

Can I use the rest of my fly speed of 120 feet
like my boyfriend to then fly away?

MATT: Certainly. Which direction?

MARISHA: I want to go back and over on this side.
Yeah, a little bit closer. Yeah.

MATT: You fly over. As you swing, it glances in
your direction and with a reaction, gets an attack

of opportunity on you with disadvantage. That's
20. What's your armor class in the planetar form?

LIAM: Captain Planet AC is 29.

MARISHA: 19, so it hits me.

LIAM: Hashtag blessed, though!

MARISHA: I am blessed!

MATT: Doesn't add to your armor class. It's
attacks and saving throws. It's a level one spell,

guys. It hits you. You take... 42 points of
slashing damage, and I need you to make a

constitution saving throw.

LAURA: You can't be blinded as a planetar, can
you?

MATT: You are not immune to blindness as a
planetar.

TALIESIN: God fucking damn it.

LAURA: There's no way to run away from him. We
have to either defeat him or find a way to

disengage him.

MARISHA: Is it con as me or con as the dude?

TRAVIS: There are four chains hanging off of the
thing, and we all know the hammer is attached to one.

TALIESIN: The rest are other tools.

MARISHA: Do I take my planetar's constitution?

MATT: Yes. That's plus seven.

MARISHA: That's cool, but then I still have my war
caster ability, too, right? I have advantage?

MATT: No, that's against concentration, so you
will have to do that in a second, but first, this

is to see if you go blind or not. This is a curse
effect.

TRAVIS: Don't they have truesight and stuff?

MARISHA: I do have truesight as a planetar. It is
pretty good, so that's 27.

MATT: 27? Okay. You resist the blindness. However,
now half that damage.

MARISHA: You said 42?

MATT: So half of that is 21, so DC 21. Make a
constitution saving throw with advantage.

TALIESIN: With a d4.

MARISHA: I'm good. 17 plus my constitution?

MATT: Yeah, you're fine. So you maintain
concentration on your form. Perfect. That finishes

Keyleth's turn. Grog, what are you doing?

TRAVIS: Yeah. It's hammer time. I'm going to run
down here-- five, ten, 15-- right there, to this side.

MATT: Perfect, you can get up right against there.
The elemental gets one swing at you as you go out

of its range. That is a three plus seven. Ten. It
hits your back and it's like, ooh. It's kind of cool.

TRAVIS: And I'll take both of my attacks at the
giant death-bringer. Just reckless, not great

weapon master. Hoping for a crit, which was not
it. 31.

MATT: Hits.

TRAVIS: Great. That's better. 32.

MATT: Hits. These are both with the minus five?

TRAVIS: No, not great weapon master. Just
reckless. Six, 22 for the first one.

MATT: Okay.

TRAVIS: And I can't disarm him; he's a giant. And
20 for the second one.

LAURA: His weapon is grappled right now, so I
don't know if you'd have advantage on trying to

disarm him.

TRAVIS: He's gargantuan, though.

LIAM: He's already at a negative because of
Bigby.

MATT: All right.

TRAVIS: And that is it.

MATT: That is it? All right. So that ends your
turn. At the end of your turn, Grog, it's going to

go ahead and use its legendary action to swing
back at you as you're hitting it. So you slam it

in the back with the axe, as it angrily
swings a wide strike towards its back, hoping to

catch the side of your chest, with disadvantage,
that is an eight plus 14. 22.

TRAVIS: That hits.

MATT: That hits. Okay. You take 27 points of
slashing damage, reduced to be 13.

TRAVIS: Can I use my stone's endurance to reduce
that further?

MATT: If you want to, or you can take a
retaliation shot. Up to you. Don't forget your

retaliation.

TRAVIS: Yeah, I was going to do it afterwards. I
thought he did two hits backwards?

MATT: Well, stone's endurance is a reaction. You
get one reaction, so it's one or the other. I'm

pretty sure it is. I'll double check.

TALIESIN: I feel like we're missing at something
really hard.

MATT: Essentially.

LAURA: I feel like he's invulnerable.

MATT: Yeah, you can use your reactions. It's one
or the other.

TRAVIS: Okay, yeah. I'll do the retaliation.

MATT: All right, cool. You take the 13 damage.
Constitution saving throw, please.

TRAVIS: Okay. Oh shit. It's that fucking sword.
Right.

SAM: You have inspiration.

TRAVIS: Thank you. Going to need it. 20. I'm going
to use my inspiration. 28.

MATT: 28. You resist it. No issue. So now you can
take your retaliation shot.

TRAVIS: Okay! Reckless, great weapon master. Why
not? That's 31 minus five, that's 26?

MATT: That hits. Roll damage.

TRAVIS: Nice. Fuck. 27.

MATT: 27 points of damage.

TRAVIS: That was a shit roll. I rolled a one. Oh!
I reroll ones! Sorry. Reroll ones. Thanks. 12!

That's way better!

(cheering)

MATT: That's an extra 11 damage on it.

TRAVIS: 28, 38.

MATT: 38 damage. There you go. So as you resist
the effect, you come back with a third strike,

slamming it into the back, and you can watch some
of the armor in the back cracks. You can see bits

of glowing orange in places. It's still looking
fine, but it's taking hits. It isn't impervious.

MARISHA: This is why I wanted a stupid water
elemental.

LIAM: He's on death's door, guys. We got him.

MATT: That brings us to Percival's turn.

TALIESIN: I'm going to run all the way back to the
back of the room, I'm going to put as much

distance-- well, actually I'll take my shots
first. I've got Animus up, so I'm going to spend a

point on it. I'm running out of grit. And I'm
going to try and take a shot on this guy.

LAURA: I'm just above you telling you how hot you look as
you're doing it.

MARISHA: Physically, you're really sweaty right
now.

LIAM: Your hair is so white. You're like Steve
Martin without the ukulele. I'm just so turned on

by you.

TALIESIN: 36. That hits, I assume, so that's 1d10
plus 1d6, and then I'm also going to blow the last

of my lightning into that, as well. That's 18
points of standard damage, two points of psychic

damage, and 15 points of lightning damage.

MATT: Nice. 35 total on that shot.

TALIESIN: That's one shot. This is my last
advantage shot. I'm going to take another

advantage shot on him. Here we go.

TRAVIS: Come on, dude.

TALIESIN: That's 24 on the advantage shot.

MATT: 24 just hits.

(cheering)

TRAVIS: That's what it is. 24.

TALIESIN: Here we go. 15 points of damage plus
three points of psychic damage. I should start

taking track of this. Shooting again, no
advantage. 20.

MATT: 20 does not hit.

TALIESIN: I'm going to burn an action surge and
take three more shots. And I'll roll 3d20.

Actually, hold on. No, it wouldn't matter. 22, yeah
it doesn't actually hit. So here we go. Taking

three shots. Oh my god! So this is great. I take
three more shots. First one is 29, so that hits.

LIAM: If any of those miss, you're blessed.

TALIESIN: No, they did not. So this is going to be
fine. I did roll the other two. 19 and 19, which

are both criticals. I got two criticals that we're
going to get into. First shot is not a critical.

That's 12 points of damage and one point of
psychic damage. And then let me get an extra d10

and an extra d6. This is weird. New critical. New
type of critical.

MATT: Takes half of the critical damage next turn.
What was the total on that last one?

TRAVIS: 26.

MATT: All right. So critical damage.

TALIESIN: Critical damage. That's 11 points of
psychic damage.

MATT: The psychic damage is doubled, too, by the
way.

TALIESIN: Yeah! And 20 points of normal damage. 20
normal and 11 points of psychic.

MATT: Okay, so 31.

TALIESIN: And now the next critical hit.

LIAM: (whispering) Yes. Yes, Percival.

TRAVIS: Come on, you sweet chinchilla.

TALIESIN: Oh my god. That's a terrible roll.
That's okay. 12 points of normal damage and six

points of psychic damage.

MATT: So 18.

TALIESIN: And so the two of those combined, cut in
half, is what he takes next round's bleed damage.

MATT: Yeah. Which is 49, so he'll be taking 24
points of bleed damage.

TALIESIN: I'm running in the opposite direction!

LIAM: You broken bastard.

MATT: So you run around this way.

TALIESIN: Oh, and that's two crits, which means I
get two grits back. I'm like (grunts) that way.

MATT: This is as far as you can get. If you want
to go that way, you'll have to go around in lava,

so you have to go around. That's as far as you can
get there. That ends your turn, Percival. All

right, at the end of your turn it's going to use
its third and final legendary action to hack down

at you because you're up next.

LIAM: Bring it. I have no fear.

MATT: All right, so that is a 25.

LIAM: Hits.

MATT: All right.

SAM: That was with disadvantage?

MATT and TRAVIS: Yeah.

SAM: Damn.

LIAM: Uncanny Dodge. Halve it.

MATT: 33 points of slashing damage.

LIAM: Okay, halved.

MATT: All right, so it'll be 16, and I want you to
make a constitution saving throw.

LAURA: Right after you were healed.

TALIESIN: This is just what you're going to be
doing.

MARISHA: That's why I went there.

LIAM: That gets me to 18.

MATT: 18, not enough. The darkness takes over
again in your eyes. It's still there in front of

you, you know where it is, but your vision is
taken from you. That is going to end that. It's

now your turn.

LIAM: I hate holding my turn, because I don't
understand it. If I hold my turn, I can only

attack when it gets back to me, right?

MATT: Depends on whatever action you decide to
hold.

LIAM: Can I hold my turn to cast Vow of Enmity
until I can see again?

MATT: You can do that if you want to.

LIAM: I'm going to hold my turn until I can
fucking see to cast Vow of Enmity and attack.

MATT: So you're expecting somebody else in your
party to come heal you?

LIAM: I'm going to do fuck all without it. Yes.
That's what I'm doing.

MATT: Okay, all right.

TALIESIN: You can move. You have a bonus action.

LAURA: Well, bonus action is Vow of Enmity.

LIAM: This guy can get anywhere. He has shown us
that he can get anywhere on this map. There's no

point going anywhere. No, I'm going to stay put.
That's what I'm doing. I've already called it.

MATT: Okay, so Vax is going to hold that. It's now
his turn. Let's see if he gets the blade storm

back. Does! He does get the blade storm back. So
he's going to leap and land up here in the center.

Oh god.

LAURA: (singing) Bigby's Hand!

TALIESIN: Oh, that also means he takes his bleed
damage this turn.

MATT: It does, yeah. So we're going to go ahead
and put this over here.

LIAM: Can anybody do an attack of opportunity?

TRAVIS: I do.

LIAM: And then, can I get an attack of opportunity
even though I'm holding? I have no idea.

MATT: You will, yes.

TALIESIN: I'm so excited by how you're doing this
here. This is some crazy shit.

LAURA: It's the sword. It throws him off balance.

MARISHA: He's been doing his yogas, though.

MATT: So takes another 24 damage, all righty. Both
you guys get attacks of opportunity.

TRAVIS: Reckless, great weapon master. 30.

MATT: Hits.

TRAVIS: Okay. For 30 points of damage.

MATT: (crash) It takes the hit, it lands. Go ahead
and make your attack.

LIAM: Okay, so I had him flanked with Grog, right,
because he was right between the two of us? So

down to regular attack.

MATT: Correct.

LIAM: Good. That hits. That's 18 plus a lot. Plus
14.

MATT: Go ahead and roll damage.

LIAM: That is 11, plus psychic damage is 13, plus
these fuckers. (counting) 35.

MATT: Okay, takes 35 damage, and the blindness
fades.

MARISHA: Wait, how did you do that?

LAURA: His concentration, maybe?

LIAM: Yeah, maybe because I cut a bit?

MATT: It seems less concentration. You get the
sense that the blindness lasts until you hit it.

LIAM: Can I see now?

MATT: You can now see.

LIAM: So now I can do my held turn.

MATT: Yes, you can.

LIAM: Am I within ten feet? I'll move forward a
bit.

MATT: Well, you held your action, not your turn.
There's a difference.

LIAM: Okay, but he's near--

MATT: I will say, the minute you hit him and the
vision comes back, I'll allow you to do it.

LIAM: Well, wait. Is he within ten feet of Grog,
would you say? His foot?

MATT: Sure, I'll let it happen.

LIAM: Well, I'm going to save it, then.

LAURA: No, he said you were in range. He was in
range right when you moved.

LIAM: I understand that. I'm weighing multiple
options, dear. No, I will cast Vow of Enmity. I'll

cast it on my bonus action, then attack, attack.

MATT: You held your action as Vow of Enmity.

LIAM: To attack, right, to attack. Which was to
cast Vow of Enmity and not to attack, as well?

MATT: You can't hold your whole turn. You hold an
action.

LIAM: Vow of Enmity.

MATT: So as it lands there, it uses blade storm,
(crash) strikes around as it sweeps everyone in a

15-foot radius, which will be Grog, Vax, Vex, the
elemental, and Scanlan.

LAURA: Aw, he can even get Scanlan? But he's so
little!

SAM: Am I still holding on to his sword?

MATT: With Bigby, you are, so disadvantage on all
these attacks, correct. So against Scanlan, that

is, hah. Avoided a natural 20 because of that. So
that instead is going to be a 22.

SAM: That hits.

MATT: All righty. Against Vax is a 29.

LIAM: (scoffs) Yeah.

MATT: All right, against Grog. That is a 21.

TRAVIS: Yep.

MATT: And against Vex is a 24.

LAURA: Ooh, that hits. And the elemental.

MATT: Elemental is an 18.

MARISHA: Hits. Armor class 14.

MATT: Yeah. All right, so each of you suffers 44
points of slashing damage.

LAURA: I'm going to uncanny dodge.

MATT: Okay, so 22.

LIAM: And I've already used my uncanny dodge in
this round, I think.

MATT: Yes, because when he took his turn, you
did.

LIAM: Yeah, so mine is 44 for me.

MATT: 44 to the elemental; you'll want to keep
track of that.

MARISHA: Yep, I'm on it.

MATT: And then 22 to you. And I need all of you to
make constitution saving throws.

TRAVIS: Come on, baby!

MATT: The elemental fails.

TALIESIN: It's a blind elemental

MARISHA: Nope, it can be blinded! He's got 70 hit
points. He hasn't taken any more damage, correct?

LAURA: Oh no! Ugh!

MARISHA: Who's blind?

LAURA: I'm blind!

MARISHA: You're blind? Is Grog blind, as well?

TRAVIS: But I'm in melee, so if he leaves, I can
hit him.

TALIESIN: Yeah, and the minute you take your turn,
you can make a reckless attack.

LIAM: Blind. Wow.

MATT: Scanlan, what's your constitution saving
throw?

SAM: I made a 23.

MATT: Scanlan resists it.

LIAM: That's you, and you, and Scanlan.

MATT: So now, Scanlan, I need you to make a
concentration check on Bigby's Hand now.

MARISHA: War caster. You have advantage!

MATT: So DC 22, because it was 44 damage. So you
have advantage.

SAM: The first one was that poop thing again.

MATT: Okay, so one.

SAM: Second one, I only rolled a seven, so I'm
sure this is not going to add up to something good.

LIAM: What's your save? What did you roll?

MARISHA: Yeah, are you sure the poop is the one?

MATT: Yeah, the poop is a one, we already covered
that.

SAM: What am I adding to this, Matt?

MATT: Your constitution saving throw.

LIAM and MATT: Plus 1d4.

SAM: Okay, I'm still not going to hit 22. This is
a check, though, so I could inspire myself,

maybe?

MATT: It's not a check, it's a saving throw.

SAM: Okay, then it can max out at 20.

MATT: Well, 20 is the max. That's what you're
trying to hit. The DC is 20.

SAM: Oh! Okay, well then I will roll my d4 and
see if I can hit it. I only rolled a three, not a four.

(groaning)

MATT: Bigby fades. No longer holding the weapon,
the hand fades and the blade is now no longer held

back. The creature's looking pretty hurt, but it's
still hanging in there.

TRAVIS: All I see is wicked Davy Jones wanting to
chop us to pieces.

MATT: End of his turn, Vex, you're up.

SAM: Who's up?

MATT: Vex's turn.

LAURA: Do I remember where he was? Can I shoot in
his general vicinity, even though I'm blind?

TRAVIS: Yeah, please, shoot me in the neck.

MARISHA: I thought you said, "can I shoot at his
genitals?"

LIAM: Is Grog close enough for flanking for her?

LAURA: 21 won't hit him, right? Okay, so I'm going
to try it again. Goddamn it. No, it's at

disadvantage. Neither of them hit.

MATT: Both arrows go wide, disappearing into the
smoke of the room. You still hear the machine,

(booming), behind you.

LAURA: Okay. Let's see if this is-- nope, it's an
action because I'm a genius. I'm going to back up.

I don't know if that'll do anything. I'm going to
disengage and I'm going to back up on my broom.

MATT: Okay, make a perception check with
disadvantage.

LAURA: Great. I'm rolling so good tonight. Shush.
17.

MATT: 17. Because your training saved you, you
pull back and you manage to hear the echoes of the

bubbling and the sounds nearby. You know where the
stairs are, and you don't fall off of them.

LAURA: Oh, I'm on my broom, so I was flying
backwards.

MATT: Okay, well if that's the case then you
managed to drift backward. How far back do you

want to go?

LAURA: As far back as I can without dying.

MATT: Well, you're going to pull back and then
slam into the wall over here, because you're not

quite sure where that is. So we'll say you're
there. That ends your turn, Vex. At the end of

your turn, the forge guardian's going to use,
let's see--

TALIESIN: Don't say "let's see."

TRAVIS: I'm right under his foot. I'm right
there.

MATT: Yep. He's going to go ahead and use a
legendary action to attack with his rune blade

against--

TALIESIN: I was going to say, you are the heavy
damage dealer so far.

MATT: You are hitting it a lot. Yeah. It's going
to go against you. Just for this hit. Advantage

against you? Natural 20.

LAURA: Oh no! Why? What are you at?

MARISHA: That's a lot of air math going on.

MATT: 61 points of slashing damage, halved to 31.

TRAVIS: Okay. Cool. Can I take my retaliation?

MATT: It hasn't come back to your turn yet,
because you've already used that last turn.

TRAVIS: You are right.

MATT: Wait, have we? Because you went last time to
attack it, yeah, and you took it as it hit you

back at the end of your turn. Yeah. So that brings
us to Scanlan's turn.

SAM: I will cast another Lightning Bolt at level six
this time, which is 11d6.

MATT: It rolled a 17 on its dex save. It has no
dex bonus, so that hits without issue, so full

damage, so 11d6.

SAM: Okay. 11d6, yes. Okay. That's only 42.

MATT: That's pretty decent, though. 42 points of
lightning damage as you blast it from behind.

(crackling) The energy hits the back and arcs
through its weapon and its blade, and you can see

steam rising up around where its fingers grasp the
handle. The leather kilt that hangs at its sides

is singed and burned from the impact. Well done.
Do you want to move or stay where you are?

SAM: How far am I from the thing?

MATT: You're about ten, 12 feet from it.

SAM: I will not move.

TALIESIN: Oh, but you're not blind anymore.

SAM: I was never blind.

TALIESIN: Oh, that's right. You avoided it.

SAM: But me hitting it doesn't un-blind someone
else, does it?

MATT: Nope.

SAM: Oh, shit. Okay, I'll Healing Word myself
again, I guess.

MATT: Okay.

SAM: What is it? 2d4 plus six.

MATT: At the end of that turn, it's going to use
its second legendary action to attack Vax this

time. And since you're blind, it has advantage.
That is a 29 to hit.

LIAM: Yeah, that hits. This is within the same
round, by the way.

LAURA: What is your--

LIAM: Low.

TALIESIN: That's okay.

LAURA: You can't die.

MATT: 29 points of slashing damage.

LAURA: He can't die? That's a rule?

TALIESIN: Let's not test that.

MATT: All right, end of Scanlan's turn. It's the
elemental's turn. The elemental is going to thrash

whatever's nearby. It's hostile to everything in
the area, and the closest thing to it is the

creature. So it's going to attack with
disadvantage twice against it. That's a miss and a

natural one on the second one, yeah. The elemental
swings and is hitting nothing in the air. It's

angry and thrashing about. At the end of its turn,
it's going to use his last legendary action to

attack Vax one more time. That's 29 again?

LIAM: Hits! Don't even bother; I'm unconscious.

MATT: Okay, so you are, yeah. It would've been 26
points of slashing damage. So with that, you are

unconscious.

TRAVIS: Okay. We're good.

MATT: All right, so that brings us to Grog and
Keyleth's turn.

TRAVIS: I'll go.

MARISHA: Go first, see if you hit him.

TRAVIS: I piata swing, reckless, great weapon
master.

MATT: Okay, so the reckless cancels out blindness,
so this is a straight roll.

TRAVIS: Single. Don't fuck me, Gil. Blacksmith die
for a blacksmith thing. That's not great. That's a

miss. Yeah. 20 minus five is 15.

MATT: Yeah. You swing, and it hits air.

TRAVIS: Well, I have one more. I'll make it
reckless and not great weapon master. Natural 20.

MATT: Gil fucked and un-fucked you real fast.

TRAVIS: It's been so long since I've done this, I
don't remember how this works. Okay. So it's three

times the thing.

MATT: Yeah. For you, you roll the dice and you do
the critical damage like you normally would.

LAURA: Yeah! 12!

MATT: So that's 24, plus your bonuses.

TRAVIS: Which is 16.

MATT: And the extra necrotic damage, right? Have
you been forgetting necrotic damage this whole

time? Grog.

LIAM: There's a lot of rules and a lot of math.
It's a big book.

TRAVIS: Yeah, I've been forgetting the fucking--

MATT: Well, now's the time to remember it, buddy.

LIAM: Travis has a job, another job.

MATT: It's all good.

TRAVIS: 1d6 necrotic damage.

MARISHA: Sam, how many hit points do you have
left?

SAM: Well, there seems to be some confusion about
that question. I have it at 62, but the overlay

has me at 44, so I don't know.

MATT: Plus two additional d12s.

TRAVIS: A one, 51. And a seven, so 58.

MATT: 58 points of damage on the hit, and your
blindness goes away.

LAURA: Yay!

LIAM: Must be nice.

LAURA: It's okay. It's all right. I forgot
Hunter's Mark for so many episodes.

MATT: So this time as you swing out, it cracks
into the side of him and the axe actually wedges a

few inches into the side of its thigh and rear
region. As it wedges in there, you actually hear

the first sound emanate from this creature:
(growling). A deep, guttural, vibrating, low

sound. And as soon as your vision clears up, you
see it turn around, its head under its arm, down

at you. You're seeing some damage on this thing.

TRAVIS: I'm like Tony Stark in the Hulkbuster
armor. I'm sorry! Go to sleep!

MATT: That the end of your turn?

TRAVIS: Yes, that's the end of my turn.

MATT: Keyleth, do what you're going to do.

MARISHA: You're blind as, well? Okay. I see my
boyfriend down, but I think he's all right, he's

fine. You're fine. God, all my friends are fucking
blind. I turn and I fly over to Vex and I go, snap

out of it! I slap a healing whatever into her. A
healing touch.

MATT: All right, so you heal the blindness.

MARISHA: So 6d8 plus three. Give me a d8 again.

TALIESIN: Reroll ones?

MARISHA: Not with healing. (counting) 32.

MATT: You heal 32, and your blindness dissipates.

MATT: All right, so you still have movement.

MARISHA: I'm going to fly back to where I was and
patrol.

MATT: All right, so you're right there at the edge
of the lava, keeping an eye on the battlefield.

MARISHA: Yeah, and out of his swinging range.

MATT: Yes, you're not quite within his range. All
right, that ends your turn. Percival, you're up.

TALIESIN: Taking three shots. And that's a 34 to
hit.

MATT: That hits.

TALIESIN: Anything that didn't hit, I'm going to
run Bless. So that's 15 points of damage, five

points psychic. That's 24.

MATT: 24 just hits. No, the Bless is
concentration, right? That shit's gone.

TALIESIN: That misses, and then the other one
misses.

MATT: Totally forgot to keep rolling concentration
for you on that. That's a thing you've got to keep

in mind whenever you take damage.

TALIESIN: Burning an action surge for three more
shots. Burning a grit for advantage.

MATT: That's right, because you have another
action surge.

TALIESIN: So advantage number one is a 17 to hit.
26, that hits? Let's put that away; that's not

helpful anymore. That's 13 points of damage, two
points psychic. Next advantage shot. That's a

natural 20.

MARISHA: Thanks, Gil! Gil's on our side!

TALIESIN: That's seven points of psychic damage.
Oh shit. That's 28 points of piercing damage.

MATT: Plus nine points psychic?

TALIESIN: Plus seven points psychic. Half that
damage, next round.

MATT: Right. The total of that together, then is?

TALIESIN: Total, (counting) that's 34.

MATT: So it takes 17 damage next round.

TALIESIN: Next round, on its turn. I'm burning
another grit for my final shot.

LAURA: Does grit give you advantage?

MATT: He can burn a grit to get advantage on a
shot, if he wants to.

TALIESIN: Yeah, I can do a lot of things with
it, but he's so big, this is my best shot,

because his AC is so fucking high. That's 31 to
hit.

MATT: That hits.

MARISHA: Did you have disadvantage on it?

TALIESIN: And that's 16 points of damage and one
point of psychic damage.

MATT: All right, so those are your shots.

TALIESIN: And I'm running towards that fire pit,
straight back.

MATT: This way. You're going to have to leap over
lava.

TALIESIN: I can't whirl around it?

MATT: If you want to go around it, you can go
(counting).

TALIESIN: That'll do.

MATT: All right, there you go. All right, that
ends Percival's turn. Death saving throw, with

advantage.

LIAM: Good, natural 20.

MATT: You're fine. Actually, you stabilize. You're
fine. End of your turn. It's now the forge

guardian's turn.

TALIESIN: Is he blind? Is he still blind?

MATT: Well, he's not conscious, and currently you
are still blind, yeah.

LIAM: Am I at zero hit points and stable, or one
hit point and stable?

MATT: Zero hit points and stable.

LIAM: Love it.

TRAVIS: One hit point. Zero is unconscious.

MATT: You don't have to make the death saving
throws anymore.

LAURA: Oh, but you're still unconscious.

MATT: No, you regain one hit point if you roll a
20! You're right!

LIAM: But we're not at the top of the round,
right? We're still mid-round, correct?

MATT: Correct. So you're conscious now, though
your vision, you open your eyes, and there's still

darkness, but you're conscious. All right. The
forge guardian does not regain his blade storm.

He's going to make two melee attacks against you,
Grog, since you've given him the option. Actually,

he's going to go ahead and leap a little bit, to
land here, not enough to give you an attack of

opportunity. It's going to make one strike at you,
Grog, and another kick attack at Scanlan.

LIAM: Kick a gnome?

TALIESIN: Gnome-kicking is a time-honored
tradition.

MATT: 31, Grog?

TRAVIS: Yeah, that hits. I'll take the retaliation
after, as well.

MATT: 34 points of slashing damage. Down to 17.
And Scanlan, that is 28 to hit.

SAM: That hits.

MATT: You take 24 points of bludgeoning
damage.

SAM: I will reduce that with Cutting Words.

MARISHA: He's about to go down, isn't he?

MATT: All right, so reduced, so roll a d12. This
is your last bardic inspiration, so you're done

with this now.

SAM: d12. Six.

MATT: Okay. So take six damage off of that.

SAM: What was the damage? I don't think you said.

MATT: I thought I did, but I don't remember.

SAM: You rolled a 20-something to hit, but I don't
think you said damage.

MATT: That's fine. I can't remember. Okay.
(counting) 25 points, reduced, so you take 19

points of bludgeoning damage as it kicks you, and
you are pushed 15 feet back.

LIAM and MARISHA: Past the lava!

TRAVIS: Skipping across!

MARISHA: Please tell me you're not unconscious.

MATT: So Scanlan, you immediately are kicked back
into the molten rock and iron. That is 61 points

of fire damage.

LAURA: Did he go under? Tell me you're not
unconscious.

SAM: I'm unconscious.

MATT: Scanlan is now on fire, and (sizzling) he's
T-800-ing.

TRAVIS: Can I take my retaliation attack?

MATT: You can.

TRAVIS: Reckless, great weapon master.

LAURA: I think I can get him out.

TRAVIS: 34 minus five. 29.

MATT: That hits. Roll damage on that.

TRAVIS: 23, 33.

MATT: 33 damage. By the way, at the top of its
turn, it also took 17 points of damage from your

hemorrhaging shot. It's looking rough now. It's
looking pretty rough. All right, so that finishes

that turn. End of his turn, Vex, you're up.

LAURA: Yeah. Okay. All right, can I get to Scanlan
from my position on the map?

LIAM: Movement, dash, action to grab him.

LAURA: All right, then I'm going to pick him up.

MATT: All right, so you glide down and you grab
his body, and you lift him up, and you get him out

of the lava but that's as much movement as you've
got.

LAURA: Can I use my action to--

MATT: It's your action to grab and pull him out.

LAURA: Can I use my bonus action to dash away?

MATT: You can. I'll say you move half speed
because you're having to bring him with you.

LAURA: Okay, I'm going to back up.

MATT: So you can get both of you guys back up to
wherever you want to go.

LAURA: Into the corner.

MATT: Into the corner? So you get about there.

LAURA: At least I got him out of the lava.

LIAM: I have had a jackrabbit knee under the table
for ten minutes.

LAURA: But that's it? That's everything.

MATT: All right, so that ends Vex's turn. Top of
the round, Scanlan, you immediately take fire

damage because you're still on fire, so you
immediately fail a death saving throw.

SAM: But I have some sort of Death Ward on me.

MATT: You do have Death Ward on you! So as you go
and reach and grab him and pull him up, the Death

Ward flickers on and he comes back to one hit
point. You pull him off to the side. As soon as

his turn comes up, he takes seven points of fire
damage and now goes to zero.

MARISHA: He didn't fail a death saving throw.

MATT: The Death Ward has expired.

LIAM: Point of clarification. We're at the top of
the round, so I just went from one hit point to two hit points.

MATT: Yeah, I think so, actually. Well, it's the
top of your turn, so yeah. Let me double check on that.

LIAM: Safe at two. No one can touch me.

TRAVIS: Yeah, you're all good.

MATT: All righty, so that brings us from Scanlan's
turn to the elemental's turn. The elemental is

going to go ahead and (whoosh).

SAM: This overlay thing's pretty cool.

LIAM: Yeah, right? It makes remote play not quite
as removed.

SAM: Can we have a hologram version of that in
front of us all the time?

TRAVIS: Yeah, right here.

MARISHA: Yeah, counting our hit points for us?

SAM: That we can see, I mean.

MATT: That is 13 against your armor class. Does
not hit. And 14 does not hit. It has the blindness

on the elemental, still.

TRAVIS: Super cute elemental, chasing me like a
puppy.

MATT: Ending that elemental's turn. It
is now Grog and Keyleth's turn.

TRAVIS: I'll go. Turn straight at him, reckless,
great weapon master.

MATT: All righty.

TRAVIS: That's going to be enough. Come on, crit.
No. Okay.

MATT: Technically, sorry, before we get to that,
at the end of its turn, at the end of the

elemental's turn, it's going to go ahead and
strike you with its blade.

TRAVIS: Okay. I'm going to keep that roll just in
case something happens.

MATT: No worries. That's a 27 to hit.

TRAVIS: Which it does.

MATT: 36 points of slashing damage, reduced to
half, so that's 18. And make a constitution saving

throw, please.

MARISHA: I have four as my planetar, so I've got
two more of those that I just did, in terms of

myself. I'm trying to keep tabs.

TRAVIS: 24.

MATT: 24? Yeah, you resist the blindness. So your
turn, unabated as you were before.

TRAVIS: Right. Minus five, is 31 to hit.

MATT: Yeah, that hits.

TRAVIS: It was a great roll. And the second one is
pretty big. 34 minus five is 29.

MATT: That hits, yeah. Both do damage.

LIAM: Let me do a little roleplay here. Oh, baby!

TRAVIS: 17 plus ten is 27 for the first one. Oh,
nope. I'm sorry! That was a one, so I'm going to

re-roll it. Five, 21, 31 for the first one. Second
one. Three, 29, and my fucking necrotic dice. Two,

four more.

MATT: All right, that ends your turn, Grog?

TRAVIS: That does. Actually, can I move? I'm going
to stay in melee, but I want to come over here in

case he decides to golf-swing me into the fucking
lava river.

MATT: Sure. It's going to use its second legendary
action to attack you, as soon as you move around,

it's going to sweep low and attempt to try and
cleave you in half. With the advantage against

you, natural 20.

(screaming)

TALIESIN: Knock it off!

MATT: That reckless attack, man. He gets advantage
on all his attacks against him.

TRAVIS: That's the reason I roll so high most of
the time.

MARISHA: Yeah, you kill them before they can
retaliate.

MATT: 73 points of slashing damage. On 3d12, it
was a ten, eight, and a 12.

MARISHA: What was it, 76?

TRAVIS: So that's 37?

MATT: It's 20, 30, times two, 60, plus 13. So 73.
So half of that would be 36, we'll say. 36 points

of slashing damage, and make a constitution saving
throw.

TALIESIN: God fucking damn it.

TRAVIS: Yeah, 24.

MATT: 24, okay. Resisting it still.

TRAVIS: I can still see?

MATT: Yeah, you can still see. All right,
Keyleth.

MARISHA: Okay. You can still see? Everyone's good?
You're up? Everyone's up?

LAURA: Scanlan's dead. Unconscious.

MARISHA: You're with him. He's fine. I'm going to
fly over. 120 feet. I've got a five-foot reach

range. I'm going to do my multiattack as my
planetar. So two hits, with plus two. I'm going to

do Gil.

LIAM: Come on, Captain Planet!

TRAVIS: We just had three fights in the same day.

MARISHA: Goddamn. That's a natural 19 on one, and
a natural 16 on the other! Plus 12 for both of those.

MATT: Yeah, those both hit.

MARISHA: Okay, and then for both of those, 4d6
plus seven, and an additional 5d8 radiant damage.

MATT: Correct.

LIAM: Kiki, it's yours.

LAURA: Kill it!

MARISHA: Okay, for the d6s alone. Okay, that's six
plus four, that's ten plus another five, 15, plus

three is 18.

MATT: 18 plus seven. 25?

MARISHA: I'm just doing the d6s. 25, and then, not
as great the second time.

TALIESIN: Do you re-roll those?

MARISHA: No, not for this. Only elemental
damage. So five, six, seven, plus another seven,

so 14.

MATT: 14, okay, and then now 10d8 radiant damage.

MARISHA: Now 10d8 radiant damage. I may just roll
these twice, okay, so the first one. Okay, ten

plus seven, so 17, plus another seven is 24
radiant, and then (counting) 19 damage. Radiant

damage.

MATT: How do you want to do this?

(shouting)

MATT: As you rush across the room, rushing towards
it, and strike out towards it, what do you want to do?

MARISHA: Okay. (grunts) As I look around, see all
my friends, blind and running around insane, I'm

going to go (yells) and fly across the field, and
come down with a big radiant strike, and try and

invoke in the back of my head, (singing)
Hallelujah! And (grunts).

MATT: As you arc down with your weapon, the holy,
divine energy spraying off of the strike, the

arc slams into the center of the guardian's chest,
and you watch as the armor expands and explodes.

You see this core in the center that previously
has been guarded by its stone form, and there on

the inside you see this beating red gem that
(power-down sound) goes cold. As it does, the

guardian drops the blade (footsteps) and walks to
the other side of the chamber, pieces of its armor

falling off to the ground. You see cracked parts
of its outer form breaking off in small chunks of

shale, and it makes its way to the opposite side,
walking around, carefully, each of you. It takes

and places its blade (crashing) up on this stand
on the wall, turns around, and goes completely

inert.

LAURA: Whoa. It was a trial. You had to be able to
beat him in order to forge here. I'm putting

Scanlan out! Because he's still on fire.

MATT: Okay. Scanlan is still on fire.

LAURA: Scanlan is not on fire anymore.

TRAVIS: Is he unconscious still?

LAURA: He's still unconscious, so I'm going to
cast Cure Wounds at level one, because that's what I

can do, so I'm going to cast Cure Wounds on him to
bring him back to life.

MARISHA: Okay, and then I fly over, (whoosh), and
do my other healing touch on Vax.

MATT: How many healing touches does he have?

MARISHA: Four.

LIAM: Wait. I don't need it. Wait.

LAURA: So six points, Scanlan, that's what you've
got.

LIAM: The massive gash across my entire body, as
you stand there for 30 seconds, starts to close.

MARISHA: Cool. (whoosh) I go over to Scanlan and
do a healing touch. 6d8. (counting) Can you give

me one more d8? Okay. Scanlan, you have 14, 15,
26. You heal 26 plus three, so 29 hit points.

SAM: Thank you.

MARISHA: And you're cured from any diseases. Is
anyone else blind or rough?

LIAM: That's gone as soon as he's done fighting.

MATT: Yes, the blindness has faded.

MARISHA: I have one more of these if anyone else
needs healing.

TRAVIS: I'm in double digits, which is
uncomfortable for me.

LAURA: Yeah, you're low double digits, too!

MARISHA: You're low double digits? (whoosh)

MATT: Where are you at?

TRAVIS: 53.

MARISHA: I drop same thing into Grog.

TRAVIS: Yeah, I got my ass handed to me. Two crits
by that giant bastard.

MATT: That reckless, man. That's the downside.

TRAVIS: I know. I'll take, though. It's worth the
gamble.

MARISHA: (counting) You get 37 hit points.

MATT: The first part of this fight, he was
sucking. It was like, two, three, three, two, and

then he picked up. All righty. So in the silence,
as you guys take a moment to breathe and recover,

the uncomfortable heat in here is sweltering. The
guardian is motionless across the forge. The blade

is set up against the wall, now obscured by the
smoke that's still billowing up across the back

wall. Getting a better glance around, you can see
a lot of the soot and black that has gathered in

the upper areas of the ceiling, which is about 50
feet high. There you see, faintly glowing and

obscuring the air above it, the Core Anvil, the
chains still held taut as the various

blacksmithing implements hang dangling off the
sides of the central platform.

TRAVIS: Well, that was a bitch. What do you say we
cut to the chase and hammer this shit out?

LAURA: I hope he won't come back to life as soon
as we start.

MARISHA: Is my elemental still going rogue?

MATT: I will say at this point, because the
elemental took quite a bit of damage, that you

guys quickly dispatch it. I don't want to have to
worry about you guys killing a blind elemental.

It's fine. No longer blind, but still. (splat)
It's gone.

MARISHA: Keyleth goes Mickey in Fantasia for a
second, and she's the axe to the brooms, killing

my creation.

TRAVIS: There's a big splash up against the wall,
but it's just water.

TALIESIN: Sam, your inspiration is a long rest
recharge, not a short rest, right?

MATT: Short rest.

TALIESIN: Oh! If we take a short rest, he can
inspire us when we do this.

LAURA: Yeah, we should probably, if we can, take a
short rest.

LIAM: That's a half hour? Yeah, that was hard.

TALIESIN: I want to sit down.

LAURA: Just so you guys can think about your
process, know exactly what you're doing.

TALIESIN: We do need to discuss this.

MATT: While you guys are taking a short rest, you
can heal up with your hit dice. I also need

everyone to make a constitution saving throw,
please, because it's so hot in here.

LIAM: Do I, with the fire on the Deathwalker's
Ward?

MARISHA: Yeah. And me with the mantle?

MATT: This is a little more than the usual mantle.
I'll say you have to make it, as well, Vax, just

make it with advantage.

MARISHA: Do I get with advantage because of the
mantle or no?

TALIESIN: 18.

TRAVIS: 21.

LAURA: 19.

LIAM: 25.

MARISHA: 14.

LAURA: Scanlan?

SAM: I rolled that poop thing again.

MATT: So both Scanlan and Keyleth gain a point of
exhaustion.

SAM: Wait, do I get advantage? No, I don't know.

MATT: You do not.

LAURA: You got a lot of hit dice that you can
roll.

TRAVIS: I do, but still. Four.

MATT: Your constitution modifier is?

TRAVIS: Five.

TALIESIN: And now I'm up to top again, and it only
took two hit dice. And then I get my heal back. I

get my action surges back. Grit comes back on a
short rest.

LAURA: I'm back to 144.

LIAM: Back at the temporary 137, due to the
feast.

TALIESIN: I'm going to really quickly fix Bad
News. All right, I fixed Bad News.

MATT: There you go.

TALIESIN: Wow. And so many things don't work
anymore. Okay. Yeah.

MATT: What's wrong now?

TALIESIN: Oh, my Hex is burned, my Spider Climb's
burned, Diplomacy is a long rest before that goes

again.

MATT: So you guys finish your short rest. What do
you want to do in the chamber? You have the whole

chamber at your disposal.

TRAVIS: I would like to go to the top where the
Core Anvil is and start pulling up each of the

tools that are hanging by the four chains.

MATT: Okay. You find numerous sets of tongs. You
find twisting tools. You find metal punches. You

find chisels of all sizes. You see a form of leg
vise that's laying at the side of the anvil which

you know immediately, weirdly for you, a leg vise
is a small device that you use to clamp metal onto

the anvil to work on it. You use your foot to hold
down with pressure. You also see the hammer that

was chained to it, as well, which is very well
made. The dark black hammer metal look with gold

inlay. It looks like scrolling all across it in
places. All these different tools are all chained

to the actual sides of the anvil.

TRAVIS: Can I tell what material the black part of
the hammer is made out of? If it's rock, metal,

some sort of volcanic glass?

MATT: It appears to be metal.

LAURA: So these trammels need to be made out of
platinum. You know how to do it, right?

TALIESIN: No, I know how to do it.

LAURA: Okay. So what do we do?

TRAVIS: I have the chunks of platinum. I hand the
chunks of platinum over to Percy to put the-- I

guess they don't have to be in--

TALIESIN: We're going to have to smelt them.

LAURA: They're going to be melted.

TRAVIS: So we should do that, right?

TALIESIN: We're going to have to start with
smelting them. Well, I don't know. You know the

process, I don't. Why am I in character talking to
the dungeon master? What's happening? Ah, the

meta.

MATT: You understand, based on the discussion you
guys had between the design, the platinum has to

be smelted down into workable bars, ingots of
metal that can be hammered and folded. You have to

get into the chamber to do so because the smelting
materials are in the chamber you just came from.

This is the forging chamber. The other doors are
still closed. Once they're made into bars, and

this is from the design that you recall Ioun gave
you, the beads of divinity that you've been given,

you have to actually shatter across the anvil and
then fold the pieces into the metal.

TRAVIS: Cool.

MATT: Once that's done then you actually have a
solid blank of platinum inlaid with the fragments

of divinity. You then have to draw out the trammel
tips, which makes them into a fine point like a

long javelin-like rod. Then you have to use the
vise, after heating the metal, to twist the

trammels. The actual design has them twisted
because it helps conduct the divine energy to the

point. And then using the chiseling tools, you
have to work in the runes that match and channel

the incantation that Scanlan's book has. It's a
multi-process step that's going to require both of

you to work together on this, since some elements
of it are blacksmithing elements, some of it are

tinkering.

LAURA: So we have to get into the other room first
before we do any of that. Can I fly over and see

if I can find any kind of apparatus that would--

MATT: Make a perception check.

LIAM: Going with her to do the same.
Investigation?

LAURA: 30.

MATT: So 30. You glance up and you see it looks
there like there were two chains that were

originally down held on a crank device. However,
the chain has been cut and the other half of it is

about 20 feet up in the air.

LAURA: Okay. And I'm assuming that I'm not strong
enough to pull on that chain, right? I can try.

I'm going to try.

LIAM: Why don't you and I try?

LAURA: Yeah, but you can't fly anymore.

MARISHA: I can, though. I still have wings.

LAURA: You fly on one and I'll try to get the
other one.

MARISHA: Yeah.

MATT: So planetar form. Go ahead and make a
strength check, please.

MARISHA: I am looking right now. My strength is
24, so plus seven. (scoffs) Again. Why again with

the threes?

TALIESIN: Put that one away.

MARISHA: Ten.

LAURA: Oh, I rolled a 13.

MATT: You two tug on those chains, and they are
not moving.

LAURA: Can the guardian do it? Hey, you that was
attacking us. Can you get those chains?

MATT: Make a persuasion check.

LAURA: (laughs) Really? Yeah, it wasn't a very
persuasive thing to say. 14.

MATT: 14? It makes no motion, change, nothing.

LIAM: Shorthalt, you got any Bigby's left in you?

SAM: I could do one if we really need it. What's
wrong with Grog? He can't do it?

LAURA: It's too high.

LIAM: He could do one. We could get him up there.

MARISHA: Is the end of the chain able to where I
can pull to at least make it reach Grog or no?

MATT: No, you don't have the strength to pull it
down, not with that strength check, unfortunately.

LIAM: Can you Bigby one and maybe Vex can slowly
pull Grog up to that thing on your broom?

LAURA: Or she could probably lift Grog up.

MARISHA: Can I fly Grog up?

MATT: Yeah. You can lift him up. (grunts) It takes
you a minute and it's a slow pull. You feel the

veins bulging on your blue-skinned forehead.
(grunts)

TRAVIS: Kicking my feet, which doesn't make it any
easier.

MARISHA: Dog-paddling.

MATT: But you do get up, Grog, and you grab the
chain. Make a strength check.

TRAVIS: I'm not still raging, unfortunately.

MATT: You can still be raging if you want to.

LAURA: You're very angry about it.

TRAVIS: 23.

MATT: As you lift him up, you grab the chain and
rappelling down, you begin to find places in the

stonework and metal on the side and hold on with
your other hand, pull. As you do, you watch the

wall on the opposite side (scraping) move up on one
side a little bit and get stuck.

SAM: Should I Bigby the other?

LAURA: Yeah.

SAM: All right. I'll have to do it at level seven.

MARISHA: Oh shit. We're so tapped out.

MATT: So Bigby's Hand appears, (whoosh) rushes up
to the other chain. Go ahead and make a d20 roll

and add an eight to it.

SAM: 21.

MATT: As Bigby pulls the other side, the wall on
the opposite side adjusts and both chains now,

Grog and Bigby's Hand together, pull and pull and
pull and slowly, as you're both pulling across the

metal and dragging it downward, the opposite wall
(scraping). Opens up.

SAM: Oh wait. Is this an ability check?

MATT: Yeah.

SAM: I'm exhausted.

TALIESIN: Bigby isn't, though.

MATT: Bigby isn't. It's a check for the spell, not
for you. So together you both eventually bring the

chains to the bottom and you find one of the
number of hooks on the floor area where you can

wrap it around to hold it in place. It's tenuous
but it's holding. And so the large metal door on

the opposite side is currently now held up about 13
feet up. It's only partway up right now but that's

all you need at the moment.

MARISHA: Can Grog and them let go? Is it going to
slam shut?

MATT: They found large rings and hooks to hook
them onto.

TRAVIS: We hurry to the other room.

TALIESIN: We hurry to the other room. If we can
get any inspiration, too, before we start this

process.

LAURA: There's no inspiration-- Oh, no, he rested.
Yeah.

MATT: Short rest, so he has his inspiration back.

TALIESIN: Let's just smelt for now.

MARISHA: And now I can do my concentration. Let me
burn another spell. I'm doing Cat's Grace on you.

That fell to the wayside before.

MATT: You have advantage on dexterity-based
ability checks.

TRAVIS: Oh that's right, that's the one. Thank
you.

MATT: So. Let's see here. Grog, Percival. You head
to the original chamber before this. You find the

tongs and some of the metallic ingot-based molds.
You take in pieces of platinum equal to the

amounts you guys had pulled up before. How much
was it?

LAURA: 300 platinum each.

MATT: That was for the face. For the trammels.

LAURA: Oh. Would those little pyramids work to
make the trammels? Or it needs more?

MATT: Well, no. There's other molds there with the
smelting device.

LAURA: I got 4,920 platinum.

MATT: If I recall, it was 1,500 platinum per
piece, I believe.

TRAVIS: So 4,500. So enough for three trammels.

MATT: So you guys made the platinum transition
when you were in Vasselheim. And the reason it

takes so much is because even the natural platinum
that's out there has some impurities in the

process of the creating so you guys have to
repeatedly go through and burn and pull out impure

segments of the metals that come to the top.

LAURA: Make sure you use some of those pyramids we
made, though.

MARISHA: Yeah, so we don't waste that platinum
that we melted into triangles.

MATT: So Grog, I need you to go ahead and make a
blacksmithing tool check. This is with proficiency

bonus. It should be dexterity for this.

TALIESIN: At which you have advantage.

TRAVIS: Which I have advantage.

MATT: Correct. So you'd roll twice.

LAURA: 1,500 per trammel? Of platinum. Okay. We're
fine. Yeah. Can you get your calculator out? Never

mind. I can do this it myself.

TALIESIN: Yeah, figure out what dex plus
proficiency. Whatever your dex plus prof is.

TRAVIS: Oh, advantage. Right. I got it. 19.

SAM: Oh, do you want me to inspire you or
anything? Do you all need anything?

TALIESIN: How long does inspiration last for?

MATT: Up to ten minutes.

TALIESIN: Let's wait until the final--

MATT: All right. So. It takes you a good 20
minutes or so, 30 minutes or so per ingot to get

all the impurities out, to heat it and to scoop it
out. Eventually gets so you can form three bars of pure

platinum to the level that you know the requirements of
the trammel are. You look around. You don't see

any areas here to cool the metal. You didn't get a
good look at the other chamber necessarily to see

if there was something for it.

TRAVIS: I still have the Alchemy Jug with the
water in it.

LAURA: You might shatter that jug.

TALIESIN: There's probably everything we need in
here if we take a look around.

MARISHA: Do you need water?

TALIESIN: We're going to need water.

LAURA: Can I fly around and see what we can see?

MATT: Sure. You glance around and there's the two
machines over there that are still (crashing).

Behind and in the center of the two machines you
do see a trough about eight feet on one side and

three feet the width of it. It is empty,
however.

MARISHA: I go over and cast Create Water.

MATT: You manage to fill the trough, brimming with
cool, instantly created water.

LAURA: We've got a trough!

MATT: Back and forth, you guys take the molds with
tongs and (sizzling) quench the metal and pull out

the three heavy platinum ingots, ready for use on
the actual anvil.

LIAM: This just turned into an Aerosmith video.

MATT: (laughter) So. Now that you're working on
the forge, you have your Gauntlets on. The two of

you walk up and you have all these tools around
you. To fold the metal, you're going to need the

hammer. So you grab the hammer and the hammer's
pretty big. It's like a maul. It's a two-handed

hammer.

TRAVIS: I love this.

MATT: You need the beads of divinity for this next
stage.

TRAVIS: Who's got the beads?

LAURA and SAM: I've got a bead.

MATT: So you take the Ioun one, which has a faint
whitish-gray glow, and place it in the center of

the anvil. Go ahead and make a strength check,
Grog.

TRAVIS: Can I go into a rage?

MATT: You may.

TRAVIS: (heavy breathing) That's even better. 25.

MATT: 25. With a giant echoing yell, (grunts) you
bring the hammer down and you watch a flash of

bright, vibrant white, faintly blue light flicker
and beam across the room. All of you for a second

have to hold your eyes and look away and as you
come back, the hammer is on top of the anvil. As

you pull it back, you see, where the bead was, there
is now a crushed dust of the same color, roughly

about the size of a plate. None of it's scattered
away from the anvil, it is a crystalline

diamond-like powder that remains.

TRAVIS: Do we fold this into one of the ingots?
One at a time?

TALIESIN: One at a time.

MATT: All right. So with you holding the tongs and
helping him, you take the hammer. I need you to

make a blacksmithing tool check.

TALIESIN: With advantage.

MATT: This is with strength, on this one. This is
hammering the metal and folding it into the

metal.

TRAVIS: That is a 19.

MATT: 19's fine. The hammering isn't too hard. The
different things have different difficulties, and

so the folding isn't too bad. So with that, you
guys take the dust and you scatter it across the

metal and then hammer and fold, hammer and fold
and take more and scatter it across the metal as

it's still heated. Hammer and fold, then go and
take it off to the side to two of the coal areas,

and you watch as the furnaces burn and heat the
metal up again. You bring it back up to the steps

and hammer and fold, hammer and fold with more of
it until eventually, you've managed to hammer in

over the next 20 or so minutes, both of you
sweating, feeling a little bit of stiffness and

soreness in your arms from this process, but
you've been far worse.

LAURA: We're cheering them on the side. Good
forging! Fold that metal.

MATT: You eventually build a rod blank for your
first trammel using the bead of divinity from

Ioun. That is complete. So who's next?

TRAVIS: Whose bead is up next?

LAURA: Oh god. All right, here we go.

MATT: All right. So you take the faintly
yellowish-glowing bead of divinity from the

Dawnfather, place it onto the anvil. Make another
strength check, please.

LAURA: Does he need inspiration?

TRAVIS: Persistent rage. I'm raging balls this
whole time.

MATT: Do you still have an inspiration on you
right now?

TRAVIS: I do not.

LAURA: Scanlan?

SAM: Do you want me to inspire you?

TRAVIS and LAURA: Yeah.

SAM: All right, I will-- I go up to Grog and I tell
him: Grog, I'm going to tell you some words of

wisdom that I learned from a book once. A wise man
said, "The man who hast smelted verily didst also

"dealt it."

TRAVIS: Wisdom. Unparalleled wisdom!

MATT: So with advantage, and you're still raging
on this.

TRAVIS: Oh, that's amazing. Yeah. 25.

MATT: 25 again.

TRAVIS: 17 plus eight.

MATT: Both times you've hit 25, and the DC on this
is 25 on the sheet here. So with Pelor's bead of

divinity, you (crash) slam down a second time.
This time, you guys see a flash like you stare

into the sun for a split second. The heat in the
room grows even warmer for a moment, and it's like

being on the outside of a Meteor Swarm blast,
which you all recall very distinctly. You come

back and pull the hammer away, and there you see
the scattering dust of the Dawnfather's blessed

bead.

The two of you then go ahead and take in the next
ingot and begin. You heat it up, bring it back to

the anvil and begin to fold, scatter, fold,
scatter, reheat, bring back, fold, scatter.

Repeating the process until you get all through
it. I need you to go ahead and make another

blacksmithing tool check.

TRAVIS: Advantage because of the Cat's Grace. It's
a 19.

MATT: This is strength, still.

TRAVIS: Oh, it is?

MATT: Yeah. I'll tell you if it's dex or strength
because you're hammering the metal. He's turning

it over.

TRAVIS: 27.

MATT: 27. Yeah. Without an issue, you guys manage
to fold in your second trammel blank without

worry. Bringing you to the third one, the third
and final.

TRAVIS: Bead.

MATT: Producing and placing onto the anvil, Vax,
you leave behind there the small jet black smooth

oval bead.

TRAVIS: I reach into my pouch and I take out one
of my peas that I got, and I put it on the anvil.

LAURA: Don't do it. Get it off of there, Grog.

MATT: Strength check, Grog.

TRAVIS: Raging strength check. Okay. It's
inspiration time.

SAM: Inspiration time?

TRAVIS: I'm going to use the dice.

MARISHA: Because you didn't use it before?

LAURA: No, he hasn't used it. (gasps)

TRAVIS: It's a 24.

MATT: 24. (clang) You slam down. And you pull back
the hammer, and there it remains. Unshattered.

LAURA: Try it again.

TRAVIS: But my arms are really sore. I need a
massage.

LAURA: I'm going to over and rub his muscles.

LIAM: Grog, if you do this I will give you
something really cool. Really cool.

TRAVIS: By whose standards, yours or mine?

LIAM: Yours.

TRAVIS: All right.

LAURA: Do you want to inspire him again, Scanlan?

SAM: Yes, I do. I will sing to him. (singing) Pour
some platinum on thee and get it on an anvil. Pour

some platinum on thee when you need a trammel!

MATT: Take your d12. All right, Grog, as you try
again, pulling the large maul hammer up.

TRAVIS: No. Come on, Gil. That's dog shit.

LAURA: Oh no!

TRAVIS: I'm not even going to use the inspiration
because it won't get us there.

LAURA: Try one more time. Can he try again?

TRAVIS: Well, now hold on. I would have to
roll a 12. Of a d12.

SAM: You'd have to roll a 12?

LAURA: Try it, though.

MATT: It's up to you.

TRAVIS: Ten.

LAURA: Oh, motherfuck.

MATT: (impact) You slam down with a second hit. As
it hits, the reverberation of the impact fills the

room. You pull the hammer back and there it
remains, but you do see a mild crack through its

form.

TRAVIS: (panting) I'll try one more time. One
more. No inspiration.

MARISHA: Can I do anything to help him?

TALIESIN: No. Let's just do it.

MARISHA: Can I give him Guidance?

LAURA: Do you get any more inspiration, Scanlan?

SAM: Sure. Yeah, I can inspire one more time.

TRAVIS: Hold on. Let me try it without the
inspiration. Let me try.

MATT: If you give him Guidance, it will give him
an additional d4 he gets to add.

MARISHA: But it would get rid of his Cat's Grace,
but you're not using it.

MATT: Oh yeah, because it's concentration.

TRAVIS: Let me do it straight up.

MARISHA: It's a cantrip. I'm going to give you
Guidance! I'm doing it! Guidance!

MATT: So as you're doing this, Keyleth comes up
behind and then touches you.

MARISHA: Come on, Grog! Come on! That's my
Guidance.

TRAVIS: I didn't need it. 25 on the dot.

MARISHA: Good.

MATT: What could have been only two trammels, you
barely manage to succeed in properly shattering

and not ruining the third bead. (impact) As you
slam, all of you for a second see nothing but

darkness. All the light, all the flame, even the
heat of the room goes jet cold for an instant. And

all of a sudden, the light of the furnaces flicker
back on, the machine once more (crushing). The

engine slams and light filters back. You pull the
hammer back. You see a scattering of darkened

coal, obsidian dust remaining behind.

TRAVIS: I've never been so happy to see a 17
before. Oh my god.

LIAM: Work that Play-Doh. Come on.

MATT: With that, you two holding the tongs, you
take and fold the metal, hammer it, fold the

metal, hammer it. Make another blacksmithing
check. Go ahead and make your final blank.

LAURA: Okay, but now you can add things.

TRAVIS: I've got advantage. Is it strength or
dex?

MATT: This is strength still, this one.

MARISHA: You still have Guidance.

TRAVIS: But I get a d4 on top of it? Oh, that's
great. 26 without the other stuff.

MATT: Without an issue. So with that, you fold and
you have your three finished trammel blanks, each

one infused with the bead of divinity. Now you
need to draw them out. And you can do these as one

check for the three of them. So you go in and you
take these blanks, these long rods, and you heat

up the tip and bring it back, you holding with the
tongs. You begin to, at an angle, hammering it

against the top of the anvil, to eventually bring
it to a gradual point. I need you to go ahead and

make a blacksmithing check. This will be dexterity
because this is less of just hammering, this is a

little more careful manipulation of the metal. Did
you cast Cat's Grace on him again? Because if you

don't, it's not advantage.

MARISHA: Cat's Grace.

TRAVIS: Then I'll keep that. And then what was the
Guidance? Do I have Guidance any more?

MATT: No, you can't have both.

MARISHA: Do you want advantage or do you want that
extra d4?

TALIESIN: Advantage.

LAURA: So he can still add one d4 on this?

MARISHA: Pick one.

TRAVIS: It's a 15 with advantage.

MATT: It's a 15?

SAM: Shall I inspire him?

MATT: Well, you have to inspire him before he
makes the check.

TRAVIS: Because it's my dexterity modifier plus my
proficiency bonus, right?

MATT: Yes.

TALIESIN: Can I help with this?

MATT: You are helping with this.

TALIESIN: Oh god. Okay.

MATT: (laughs) We'll get to you shortly. So as you
begin to hammer it out, it's getting a little

fragile at some points. I'll let you make one more
check so you don't ruin one of the trammels.

TRAVIS: Advantage, right?

TALIESIN: Advantage and inspiration.

SAM: Sure. Yeah, I'll inspire him again.

LAURA: He needs as much as you can give him,
Scanlan.

SAM: I will give him every inch of myself.

LAURA: So one?

(laughter)

SAM: One by one by one, yeah.

TRAVIS: My god. That's better. Okay. That's a 24.
Should I use the inspiration?

SAM: Yes, you should.

TRAVIS: 29.

MATT: 29. So this time, seeing where the
imperfections were in the hammering you initially

did and curving and bringing fragility to one of
the trammels, you double back, heat up, and

correct the mistake. Over the next ten minutes or
so, you both carefully work to bring each to a

razor point at the end of these large platinum
javelins now. They're thicker on one side and come

to an impossible point at the other. You have
three of these base trammels now complete.

LAURA: Now we got to twist them?

TRAVIS: No, we got to put the runes in.

MATT: So now you have to twist them. This is where
you bring up the leg vice. So you go ahead and you

clamp it in there. This is without your help. This
is now you taking and heating the metal and

twisting it as you go, so make another
blacksmithing check.

MARISHA: I can guide you. I can do nothing else.

MATT: This is a dexterity-based.

MARISHA: Oh, it's dexterity still? Then keep the
advantage. You have advantage.

TRAVIS: (sobbing) I'm tired of this.

LAURA: Does he have any more inspiration?

SAM: Sure. I can inspire him.

LAURA: Wait, keep inspiring.

TALIESIN: He already rolled.

LAURA: But he hasn't announced it.

MATT: He already rolled.

TRAVIS: It's a 26. It's okay.

MATT: So with that, you, one by one, slowly using
the clamp, twist, heat it up, grab, clamp, twist,

hammer, twist and continue this process for each
trammel as everyone looks on with bated breath.

The deafening sound of the engine-like
contraptions fill the space like a heartbeat.

Their rhythm gets into your muscles and the aches
begin to fade as you focus on the hammers in

unison with the (slamming). Becomes this very
primal forging-of-the-world vision to see Grog

atop this anvil for over an hour at this point
now, sweating and hammering away at these

trammels. A vision of the Allhammer once, long
ago, forging weapons of old, long-forgotten and

lost, now Grog sits here, forging the means of
sealing one of the biggest threats to the Prime

Material Plane by himself. As you finish twisting
the final trammel, you pull it up (sizzling),

quenching them in the water that you left behind.
And as you pull up, you can see as the steam

rises, the three twisted javelins of pure platinum
ready for the final scrolling.

TRAVIS: (panting) Okay. Okay, give me the cool
thing.

LIAM: I don't want to do that with everybody here.
I'm not lying to you. It's really cool.

TRAVIS: I'm too tired to be upset about it.

LIAM: Later. I promise.

MARISHA: What do you--

TALIESIN: Well, let's see. What do I have to do?

MATT: The only hammer here is that maul, but all
the chiseling and tinkering work takes a much

smaller, more delicate hammer.

TRAVIS: I do have the Dwarven Thrower.

MATT: It's going to have to be a smaller edge than
that.

LAURA: Like what? Whisper?

LIAM: Edge? Yeah?

MATT: It has to be a hammer.

MARISHA: Like a rock hammer.

LAURA: Can we look around for a little teeny
hammer?

MATT: Make an investigation check.

SAM: Teeny hammer?

LAURA: 12 for me, so probably not so much.

TALIESIN: Make an investigation check?

TRAVIS: Me too.

LIAM: 18 for me.

TALIESIN: Glad I got that roll out of the way.

TRAVIS: 15?

MATT: Looking around, all the other tools are for
different things, but there's no other hammer.

There's the one singular giant hammer on the
chain.

LAURA: Have you picked it up? Maybe it changes
shape.

TALIESIN: I'm going to try picking the hammer up.

MATT: Okay. You pick up the hammer.

TALIESIN: I'm going to try and attune to it.

MATT: So you take a bit of time to attune with it,
if you feel that's something you could try.

TALIESIN: I'm going to examine it.

MATT: Okay. Make an arcana check.

TALIESIN: Make another arcana check. Let's see
what happens. Oh, that's better. 21.

MATT: 21. This is definitely an enchanted hammer.
You take time with it and focus, and once you feel

the essence of attunement begin to drift into this
hammer, you unattune from one of your other items

and you will it. The hammer actually (shrinking)
shrinks down into a small, light hammer. Ball-peen

hammer.

TRAVIS: Smart move.

TALIESIN: I'll drop Animus for now.

MARISHA: Your coffee-stained artifacts.

LIAM: I dropped my travel mug.

MATT: So. Now with this tinier hammer in your
grasp, you walk over and put the trammels on the

anvil. You grab some of the chiseling implements,
and the two of you together begin to work. And

you're mainly there taking the hammer and driving
the back of the chisel while he's guiding the

design because you don't know what vision he has.
So you've done all the groundwork. You've built

the structure, the base plate for it. But you have
all the intricate designs in the head that Ioun

imparted with you. So now you almost go into a
trance with the chiseling tools and you have three

in your hands and you're juggling them behind and
you're staring ahead. It's really weird to watch

Percival go from this focused individual to
staring off into space and his hands take over and

begins moving the chisels along. Each one of them
almost too fast for you to keep up and you get to

the point where you're like (rapid hammering).
Trying to keep up with him as he's moving along.

As you do, you watch as this intricate scrolling
begins to appear and dig itself into the side of

each trammel. He rotates it with the tongs, moves
into place, gets the chisel and removes it,

rotates it again and as this continues, it gets
faster and faster and faster. I need you to go

ahead to make a tinkering check.

MARISHA: Do you want any Guidance?

TAILESIN: Oh, I'll take anything I can get.

LAURA: Cat's Grace is what, dexterity?

TALIESIN: Well, technically that's a dex check, so
if you have Cat's Grace I'll take it.

MARISHA: Is it a dex check?

MATT: It's what you gave to Grog earlier.

MARISHA: Okay. Then I will give you Cat's Grace at
third level because my 2nd-level spells are tapped.

And so are now my 3rd-level spells. Nothing more.

TALIESIN: If you have any inspiration, I'll also
take it.

SAM: Yes, sure. I'll give you some. I will sing to
you. I will sing: (singing) bang bang, Percy's ball-peen

hammer goes down, upon the ground! Bang bang,
Percy's ball-peen hammer makes a really, really

big sound. (vocalizing)

MATT: The actual heat from the Core Anvil is
enough that when you hold the trammel against it,

it gives it just enough of a malleable edge for
you to go ahead and chisel through it without

issue. As you're going, it's three checks: one for
each trammel. So the first one?

TALIESIN: That's without inspiration. That's 31.

MATT: 31. (skittering, clanging) After about five
minutes or so, you finish and grab one of the

trammels and (clang) onto the ground. Begin on the
other. (skittering)

TRAVIS: Slow down!

TALIESIN and MARISHA: (groan)

MARISHA: Try again. Inspiration it?

TALIESIN: I might be able to inspiration this
because that was a really bad roll. Both of them

are the same. Both of them are two. And this is
not one of those things where I can fix. It's

either good or it's bad.

LAURA: We might be able to fix it.

TALIESIN: I'm going to try and add a little bit of
inspiration, maybe.

MARISHA: (groans)

TALIESIN: That's not very good. That's 17.

MATT: 17. Okay. The second trammel, as you're
chiseling along, you feel as the metal (cracking)

begins to bend and snap in one place. It's still
one piece. (sighs) The DC has gone up, but you get

one more shot at that one.

TALIESIN: Can I get one more inspiration if you
got any? Are you out?

SAM: I've used five, and I think I get six.

TALIESIN: Let's take another one. Just in case
because Jesus fucking Christ.

MATT: The DC was 20. Now it's 25.

TALIESIN: Okay.

MATT: If this fails, it's going to break a
trammel.

LAURA: Oh my god!

TALIESIN: Please. I will happily take that
inspiration, please.

SAM: All right. I will inspire you with some
bullshit.

MARISHA: No one has any other type of Guidance or
anything?

LAURA: I'm looking. I've got nothing.

TRAVIS: I don't have anything; I just hit things!

TALIESIN: It's a skill check. It's not a save. Oh
wait. I don't get to add anything from the hammer

for this?

MATT: No. The hammer is allowing the process to
take place.

LIAM: Do we need to do this right now? Can we take
nappies and come back?

TALIESIN: I think it has to be soft, right?

LIAM: You would have a whole other batch of
inspirations in the morning.

SAM: Yeah, but he's got one more shot at this.

TALIESIN: I think we have to do it now, right?

MATT: The trance is there. It's up to you.

TALIESIN: Give me one more inspiration if you can,
and we'll see where we go.

SAM: I will sing one more song to inspire you.
I'll sing: (singing) Here's a little song I wrote! It's

filled with inspiration note for note. Don't fuck
up! Or I'll kill you!

(laughter)

MATT: All righty.

TALIESIN: I don't feel good.

TRAVIS: One at a time.

TALIESIN: That'll do. 18, 28, 30.

MATT: 30.

TRAVIS: And we have the inspiration for the third
one.

MATT: You managed to complete the scrolling on the
trammel. The trammel is still noticeably fragile,

but it seems functional. The enchantment will be
channeled. So second trammel's done. Final check

on the third and final trammel.

TRAVIS: Come on. Jesus.

MARISHA: This is so stressful.

TALIESIN: That's not bad. Yeah! So that's 34!

(cheering)

TALIESIN: Rolled a 12 on the inspiration dice.

MATT: With that, the feverish pace of the
scrolling as you work across the final trammel,

Grog, it's almost to the point where he'll move
the chisel to a place, you'll hammer, move back

and he's going too fast and he has to go back. And
while he's not even looking at you, the chisel

will clang multiple times across the side of it,
telling you to fucking hit the back of it with the

hammer. You take it and slam it, move along,
eventually coming across each side of the

spiraling trammel to completion. At that point,
the hammer still in your grasp, you back away.

Percival, you take it and the heated edge of it is
burning into your hand a little bit and you walk

over and drop it into the trough water. (sizzling)
Turn around, drop it next to the third and final

piece.

TALIESIN: And I faint.

(laughter)

MATT: And as Percival hits-- He passes out onto
the stairs, half-leaning onto the stairs. You

catch him. Grog, you look at your feet where
Percival left the last piece and you reach down

and pick up the three trammels. They're about that
long, each of them, and they're these heavy

spikes that come to a gradual spiraling twist at
the tip. They're covered in intricate, beautiful

scrolling of some sort of arcane language that you
are unfamiliar with, and you don't think you've

been so proud to be part of crafting anything like
this before.

TRAVIS: These are obviously too dangerous for this
world, and I walk over to the lava.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Kidding!

LAURA: This is a step up from fine leather boots,
Grog.

TRAVIS: Yeah, it's true.

MATT: And with the completion of the trammels,
this leg of your journey now complete, we're going

to close tonight's episode. Good game. (sighs)
We'll pick up this at GenCon next week at our live show.

MARISHA: So GenCon we're going to start with
trying to get out of an active volcano?

TALIESIN: Well, I think we'll assume that we're
going to take a mansion rest and we'll come out of

a mansion rest. Can we assume that's going to be
it?

MATT: If you want to take that point now, we'll
say with the end of this episode you guys take a

mansion rest? No?

TRAVIS: No?

LAURA: Or are you tapped out? Do you have any
spells left, Scanlan?

SAM: I saved one level eight spell for such a thing.

LAURA: So we head into the mansion.

MARISHA: And I technically have one 7th-level
spell, so if we want to go into the mansion and

then I can Plane Shift us home, we can do that. Or
wherever we want.

TALIESIN: So we can Plane Shift, mansion wherever
we need.

TRAVIS: And if we go into the mansion, the first
purple servant that hands me a salad, I behead

unless it's the GoFiBePo.

MATT: So are you going to long rest and then Plane
Shift or Plane Shift and then long rest wherever

you land?

MARISHA: Plane Shift and then long rest.

LAURA: If we're in the mansion, he can't see us.
So that's the only thing. It might be good to rest

inside the mansion so he can't attack us before we
attack him.

TALIESIN: Are we going straight to him?

LAURA: We don't know.

TALIESIN: All right. Mansion.

MARISHA: I will be burning my 7th-level spell at
the top of the day instead of at the end.

TALIESIN: So let's Plane Shift somewhere and
mansion.

MARISHA: Well, no. I can only Plane Shift us on
this plane by basically hacking the spell because

the mansion is another plane of existence. So I
can't Plane Shift us on this plane. I have to

plane to another plane.

TALIESIN: We need to rest. Let's rest. Yeah,
ignore it.

MARIRSHA: We'll figure it out at GenCon. We'll
figure it out in Indianapolis.

LAURA: Fuck it, we'll do it live!

TALIESIN and TRAVIS: We'll do it live!

MATT: All righty, then. So. We'll pick up there
next week at GenCon. (exhales) All right, guys.

TRAVIS: That fucking giant sword-swinging bastard!
Is he even wearing underpants under that? We don't know.

LAURA: No, he's not. I saw his balls. I saw his
golden balls.

LIAM: It's a big iron pendulum swinging around.

TRAVIS: Legendary action: the nut swing.

MATT: Yeah.

LAURA: Oh goodness gracious, we got to get all of
our stuff. Do we need to bring our own binder to

GenCon?

MATT: Yes, bring your binders. Bring your sheets.
Otherwise, the rest of you, thank you for joining

us, as always. Rest well. See you next week, and is
it Thursday yet? Good night.

TRAVIS: Beautiful map, Matt. That was amazing.

[music]